<pre>       <strong>CONDITIONS</strong>

1.     The prices include packing, cartage and loading charges, unless 
       otherwise specified in this contract.

2.     Payment will be made upon presentation to Canadian Commercial 
       Corporation of the required documents.  Interest will not be paid on 
       any sum overdue.  Cash discounts will be calculated from the actual 
       date invoices with all supporting documents are received.

3.     (a)    Contracts for defence requirements of Governments other than 
              United States.  The provisions of DSS 1026A or B, as 
              applicable, (a copy of which the supplier acknowledges having 
              received) shall form part of this contract.

       (b)    Contracts for requirements of the United States Government.  
              The Department of Supply and Services General Conditions DSS 
              1026A (Supplies-Firm Price), with the exception of clauses 6, 
              7, 8, 19, 21 and 28 thereof, or if applicable, the Department 
              of Supply and Services General Conditions DSS 1026B 
              (Supplies-Cost Reimbursement), with the exception of Clauses 
              7, 8, 9, 23 and 24 thereof, and the clauses referred to in 
              the U.S. contract copies of which the seller acknowledges to 
              have received, shall be applicable to and form part of the 
              contract.

       (c)    Contracts for non defence requirements.
              The provisions of General Conditions CCC 50 (a copy of which 
              the supplier acknowledges having received) shall form part of 
              this contract.

4.     The applicable Labour provisions established by Order in Council P.C. 
       1954-2029 of December 22, 1954 (a copy of which the supplier 
       acknowledges to have received) and all amendments thereto shall 
       apply and form part of this contract.

5.     The supplies shall be delivered strictly in accordance with the 
       quantities, specifications, terms and conditions hereof.  Time is of 
       the essence of this contract.  (See time of delivery indicated and <em>
       penalties for default</em> set out in the General Conditions).

6.     If required, the seller will enter into a formal agreement with the 
       buyer containing such terms and conditions (not inconsistent with 
       the terms and conditions hereof) as may be required by the buyer.  
       Unless and until such a formal agreement is entered into, this shall 
       be the only contract and the terms and conditions hereof shall not 
       be altered or added to by anything not set out herein.

7.     The supplies shall be at the risk of the seller, and the seller 
       shall bear all loss or damage whatsoever from whatsoever cause 
       arising which may occur to the supplies or any part thereof up to 
       the time the same are delivered at the f.o.b. point or f.a.s. point 
       or other place of delivery specified in this contract.

8.     The buyer reserves the right to change the place of delivery shown 
       in this contract to such other place as it may direct at any time 
       prior to actual shipment, in which case the seller agrees to comply 
       with such direction and shall be entitled to be reimbursed for any 
       additional costs incurred or agrees to reduce its price or prices to 
       the extent of any lesser costs involved.

9.     Where the sale of the supplies is by description and there has been 
       no examination or inspection of the supplies by or on behalf of the 
       buyer prior to delivery thereof and the supplies do not correspond 
       with the description, thereby involving a breach of a condition or 
       warranty, expressed or implied, then the failure to inspect or 
       reject the supplies shall not impose liability on the buyer for such 
       supplies as are not in accordance with the description and any and 
       all costs and expenses incurred by the buyer in respect of any such 
       supplies which may be rejected at their destination, shall be borne 
       by the seller.

10.    The seller shall procure and/or supply at no additional cost to the 
       buyer all documents and reports which are necessary in connection 
       with the delivery and shipment of the supplies, including the 
       documents and reports specified in this contract and such other 
       documents and reports as may be required by the buyer.

11.    Any necessary export permits will be provided to the seller by 
       Canadian Commercial Corporation prior to shipment.

12.    Inspection is to be arranged by and to the satisfaction of the 
       inspector, if any, named in this contract to whom all questions 
       regarding drawings, specifications, etc., must be referred, and with 
       whom arrangements for inspection must be made prior to shipment of 
       the supplies.  The seller shall obtain inspection reports.

</pre>