<pre>A.  Definitions:

       1. Minimum Wage - means the current minimum wage which must be paid 
       to the temporary employee as established under legislation enacted 
       by the Federal Government or the Government of Ontario or Quebec.

       2. Overtime - means time worked in excess of forty-four (44) hours 
       per week as established by the Department of Labour of the 
       Government of Ontario and Quebec.

       3. Compulsory Employee Benefits - means all benefits stipulated 
       under federal and provincial labour legislation such as Worker's 
       Compensation, and if applicable, Unemployment Insurance, Canada 
       Pension Plan, etc. 

B.  Mandatory Price Inclusions:

The all-inclusive hourly rate quoted by the Supplier should include 
allowance for the following:

       1. Minimum Wage - the temporary employee must be paid at least the 
       higher of the federal or provincial minimum wage in effect at the 
       time of submission of the proposal and further make provision for 
       any/all announced changes in minimum wage that will occur during the 
       period of the Standing Offer. 

       NOTE:  The federal minimum wage is presently $_____ per hour.

       The Ontario and the Quebec minimum wages are currently $_____ per 
       hour.

       2. Employee Benefits - will include the cost of all mandatory 
       employee benefits as defined herein and any other benefits mutually 
       agreed to by the Supplier and the temporary employee. 

       3. Interview Costs - all expenses associated with candidate 
       interviews with potential federal government employers.

       4. Utilization Reporting - will include the cost of preparing and 
       delivering the required monthly reports.

C.  Calculation of Overtime Rates:

The increase in billing rate for authorized overtime work WILL NOT INCLUDE 
any element of overhead and profit, and will be confined solely to the 
increase in wages and employer contributions.

NOTE:  All overtime worked will require the prior approval of the Service 
Site Authority.  
D.  Sales Tax:

Provincial sales tax is not applicable to these services and, therefore, 
shall not be included in the rates quoted.  Goods and services tax, as 
applicable, is extra.

E.  Employee Deductions:

The successful Supplier(s) shall be responsible for making all temporary 
employee pay deductions required by federal or provincial government 
legislation and/or regulations.

F.  Rates:

Rates for bilingual services are provided to the extent that the Supplier 
has bilingual permanent personnel involved in the selection of the 
candidates to be provided against the call-ups. The names of these 
personnel are listed in Part V. 

G.  Hourly Rates Adjustment:

       1.  The hourly rates quoted herein may be subject to review and 
       adjustment by the Minister if:

              a) a legislative change in the federal or provincial minimum 
              wage takes effect.  Any adjustment will be equal to the 
              amount by which the new minimum wage exceeds an employee's 
              hourly wage plus the related increase in employer 
              contributions, expressed in cents per hour; 

              b) a federal or provincial legislative change affecting 
              employer contributions takes effect.  Any adjustment will be 
              equal to the increase in employer contributions, expressed in 
              cents per hour. 

       2.  The Supplier will be required to submit a written request to the 
       Contracting Authority for the Minister's authorization for any 
       adjustment as specified herein.  Such request will include the 
       following, if applicable: 

              a) certification of existing wages paid to employees who will 
              be affected by the said legislative changes, and  

              b) the amount of the increase in employer contributions.

       3.  The hourly rates quoted herein may be subject to a decrease in 
       the event of a federal or provincial legislated decrease in employer 
       contributions.  Any adjustment will be equal to the decrease in 
       employer contributions, expressed in cents per hour. 
 
H.  Discounts:

Suppliers shall enter details of any discounts offered on Appendix "__" 
attached hereto.

CASH DISCOUNTS:  Offers are to be based on the specified payment period.  
Payment may be made in advance of the due date set out under the payment 
terms of the Contract where the supplier's invoice offers a discount for 
early payment and the discount at least offsets the cost to the government 
of paying early.  For this purpose, the costs to be considered are:

       - imputed interest at the 3-month Treasury Bill rate plus 1/8 of 1 
       percent for the number of days that payment is made early; and

       - the incremental cost to the government of any special processing 
       that may be required.

Cash discounts for early payment will not be considered in the evaluation 
of bids.

I.  Travel and Living Expenses:

Should the temporary employee be required to travel as part of the actual 
performance of the work, then the supplier will be reimbursed for actual 
costs incurred with respect to travel and living expenses not exceeding the 
applicable allowances listed in the current Treasury Board Travel Directive.

In no event shall the successful supplier add to these expenses an element 
to cover profit or general and administrative charges.

J.  Rate Certification:

The Supplier hereby certifies that the rates provided are not in excess of 
the lowest rates charged anyone else, including his most favoured customer, 
for like quality and quantity of the services, do not include an element of 
profit on the sale in excess of that normally obtained by him on the sale 
of services of like quality and quantity, and do not include any provision 
for discounts to selling agents.

K.  Discretionary Audit:

The Supplier's certification that the price/rate is not in excess of the 
   lowest price/rate charged anyone else, including his most favoured 
   customer, for like quality and quantity of the products/services, is 
   subject to verification by government audit, at the Minister's 
   discretion, before or after payment is made to the Supplier under the 
   terms and conditions of the Contract.  If the said audit demonstrates 
   that the certification is in error, it is agreed that the Supplier shall 
   make re-payment to the Crown in the amount found to be in excess of the 
   lowest price. 
</pre>