<pre>The "Disputes" clause set out below forms part of the contract between the 
Canadian Commercial Corporation (CCC) and the United States (U.S.) 
Government covering the supplies set out in this Contract. The word "
Contractor", wherever it appears in the said disputes clause, refers to CCC. 
Reference to the word "Contracting Officer" in the disputes clause shall be 
deemed to mean the U.S. Contracting Officer. CCC will keep the Contractor 
informed of any and all such disputes and, in the event of a decision being 
made by the Contracting Officer or the Secretary (as defined in the said 
CCC-U.S. Contract) which is binding on CCC in accordance with the said 
Disputes clause, the Contractor shall, if and to the extent required in 
writing by CCC, abide by such decision. The following is the text of the 
said Disputes clause in CCC-U.S. Contract:       

"DISPUTES CLAUSE (1984 April):       

(a) This Contract is subject to the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (U.S. 
Public Law 95-563).      

(b) Except as provided in the Act, all disputes arising under or relating 
to this Contract shall be resolved in accordance with this clause.       

(c)    1. As used herein, "claim" means a written demand or assertion by 
       one of the parties seeking, as a matter of right, the payment of 
       money, adjustment or interpretation of Contract terms, or other 
       relief, arising under or relating to this Contract. However, a 
       written demand by the Contractor seeking the payment of money in 
       excess of $50,000 is not a claim until certified in accordance with 
       (d) below.      

       2. A voucher, invoice, or other routine request for payment that is 
       not in dispute when submitted is not a claim for the purposes of the 
       Act. However, where such submission is subsequently disputed either 
       as to liability or amount or not acted upon in a reasonable time, it 
       may be converted to a claim pursuant to the Act by complying with 
       the submission and certification requirements of this clause.    

       3. A claim by the contractor shall be made in writing and submitted 
       to the Contracting Officer for decision. A claim by the Government 
       against the Contractor shall be subject to a decision by the 
       Contracting Officer.       

(d) For Contractor claims of more than $50,000, the Contractor shall submit 
with the claim a certification that the claim is made in good faith; that 
the supporting data are accurate and complete to the best of the 
Contractor's knowledge and belief; and that the amount requested accurately 
reflects the Contract adjustment for which the Contractor believes the 
Government is liable. The certification shall be executed by the Contractor 
if an individual. When the Contractor is not an individual, the 
certification shall be executed by a senior company official in charge at 
the Contractor's plant or location involved, or by an officer or general 
partner of the Contractor having overall responsibility for the conduct of 
the Contractor's affairs.   

(e) For Contractor claims of $50,000 or less, the Contracting Officer must, 
if requested in writing by the Contractor, render a decision within sixty 
(60) days of the request. For Contractor-certified claims in excess of $50,000, 
the Contracting Officer must decide the claim within sixty (60) days or 
notify the Contractor of the date when the decision will be made.

(f) The Contracting Officer's decision shall be final, unless the 
Contractor appeals or files a suit as provided in the Act.       

(g) Interest on the amount found due on a contractor claim shall be paid 
from the date the Contracting Officer receives the claim (properly 
certified, if required, in accordance with (d) above), or from the date 
payment otherwise would be due, if such date is later, until the date of 
payment. Simple interest will be paid at the rate, established by the 
Secretary of the Treasury as provided in the Act, which is applicable to 
the period during which the Contracting Officer receives the claim and then 
at the rate applicable for each six (6) month period as fixed by the 
Secretary during the pendency of that claim.

(h) The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this 
Contract, pending final resolution of any request for relief, claim, appeal 
or action arising under the Contract, and comply with any decision of the 
Contracting Officer."

In the event that the Contractor submits a claim to CCC which is rejected 
by the U.S. Contracting Officer, the costs of any further proceedings which 
the Contractor may wish to make shall be for the Contractor's account.      

If the Contractor wishes to dispute a decision made by the U.S. Contracting 
Officer, the Contractor shall notify and submit a claim to the CCC 
Contracting Officer in sufficient time to permit CCC to process a claim on 
the U.S. Government within the time limit stipulated in the Disputes clause.       

Any claim submitted by the Contractor to CCC under this Disputes clause 
must carry the certification detailed in paragraph (d) above.  

Any interest paid to CCC by the U.S. Government as a result of such claim, 
pursuant to paragraph (g) above, will be for the Contractor's account.     

Canadian Commercial Corporation shall not be liable to the Contractor 
except to the extent that it is established that the U.S. Government is 
liable to CCC under the above Disputes clause.

</pre>