<pre>1.  The price(s) quoted by Canadian-based suppliers shall be quoted and 
payable in Canadian funds.  The option rests with foreign-based bidders to 
quote the price(s) in Canadian or foreign currency, with payment made 
accordingly.  If the price is quoted in foreign currency, paragraphs 2 to 6 
below do not apply.

2.  The option rests with the Bidder to accept the risk associated with 
foreign exchange fluctuations in which case the following paragraphs 3 to 6 
inclusive do not apply or the Bidder can identify the foreign currency 
component on form DSS-MAS 9411, Claim for Exchange Rate Adjustments, in 
which case Canada will assume the associated risk for foreign exchange 
fluctuations.  It should be noted, however, that in the case of identical 
bids, preference may be given to the Bidder who is willing to assume the 
risk related to foreign exchange.

3.  The foreign currency component is defined as the element of the price 
which will be affected by rate fluctuations.

       a)  For Canadian-based contractors, it includes the duty-paid value 
       (value in Canadian funds of the foreign component including customs 
       duty) plus goods and services tax and excise taxes of an ad valorem 
       nature, as well as transportation costs payable in foreign currency. 

       b)  For foreign-based contractors, it excludes customs duty, goods 
       and services tax and excise taxes of an ad valorem nature, but 
       includes transportation costs payable in foreign currency. 

4.  The foreign currency component(s) subject to adjustments reflect(s) the 
goods and services purchased:

(  )  a) by Canadian contractors from outside Canada with payment in a
       foreign currency; or

(  )  b) from authorized Canadian agents but paid for in a
       foreign currency; or

(  )  c) from a foreign contractor with payment in Canadian funds.

(Check one of the above as applicable.)   The applicable conversion factors 
are as detailed in form DSS-MAS 9411 which will form part of any resultant 
Contract.

5.  Price adjustments with respect to foreign currency fluctuations will be 
based upon the value of the foreign currency component in foreign funds 
(see section A of form DSS-MAS 9411) with appropriate adjustments to 
reflect actual exchange rates obtained as opposed to the rate specified at 
section B of the form.  Such increases or decreases in the rate shall be 
based on the following criteria: 
       a)  for Canadian-based suppliers, on the date payment(s) to the 
       Contractor's foreign supplier is(are) effected, provided such 
       payment(s) is(are) made within thirty (30) calendar days after the 
       date of importation and the date of importation is prior to the 
       delivery date specified in the Contract.  If payment to the 
       Contractor's supplier is not made within thirty (30) calendar days 
       after the date of importation, and the date of importation is on or 
       before the specified delivery date, Canada may select the rate most 
       advantageous to it within the 30-day period after importation. 
       However, in the case of importations made after the specified 
       delivery date, Canada will select the rate most advantageous to it 
       within the 30-day period after the specified delivery date; 

       b)  for foreign-based suppliers, the rate(s) prevailing on the date 
       of payment(s) by Canada will apply, provided delivery is made on or 
       before the delivery date specified in the Contract.  In case of 
       delivery made after the specified delivery date, Canada will select 
       the exchange rate most advantageous to it within the 30-day period 
       after the specified delivery date. 

6.  For Canadian-based suppliers, the Minister shall have the right to 
   audit any revision to costs under this clause.
</pre>