<pre>1.     In this clause,

       "<strong>completion of warranty period</strong>" means the later of the date upon 
       which the warranty period expires by the passage of time or the date 
       upon which the obligations of the Contractor related to the warranty 
       provisions of the Contract have been fulfilled;

       "<strong>security deposit</strong>" means

       (a)    a bill of exchange

              (1)    that is payable to the Receiver General for Canada, 
                     and

              (2)    that is certified by an approved financial institution 
                     or drawn by an approved financial institution on 
                     itself; or

       (b)    a Government guaranteed bond; or

       (c)    an irrevocable standby letter of credit, or

       (d)    such other security as may be deemed appropriate by the 
              contracting authority (Department of Public Works and 
              Government Services) and approved by the Treasury Board;

       "<strong>approved financial institution</strong>" means

       (a)    any corporation or institution that is a member of the 
              Canadian Payments Association;

       (b)    a corporation that accepts deposits that are insured by the 
              Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation or the "Régie de 
              l'assurance-dépôts du Québec" to the maximum permitted by law;

       (c)    a credit union as defined in paragraph 137 (6)(b) of the <em>
              Income Tax Act</em>; or

       (d)    a corporation that accepts deposits from the public, if 
              repayment of the deposits is guaranteed by Canada in right of 
              a province.

       "<strong>Government guaranteed bond</strong>" means a bond of the Government of 
       Canada or a bond unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and 
       interest by the Government of Canada that is

       (a)    payable to bearer; or

       (b)    accompanied by a duly executed instrument of transfer of the 
              bond to the Receiver General for Canada in accordance with 
              the Domestic Bonds of Canada Regulations; or

       (c)    registered in the name of the Receiver General for Canada.

       "<strong>irrevocable standby letter of credit</strong>" means any arrangement, 
       however named or described, whereby a financial institution (the "
       Issuer"), acting at the request and on the instructions of a 
       customer (the "Applicant"), or on its own behalf, is to make a 
       payment to or to the order of Canada, as the beneficiary, or is to 
       accept and pay bills of exchange drawn by Canada, or authorises 
       another financial institution to effect such payment, or accept and 
       pay such bills of exchange, or authorises another financial 
       institution to negotiate, against written demand(s) for payment 
       provided that the terms and conditions of the letter of credit are 
       complied with. The letter of credit shall:

       (a)    state the face amount which may be drawn against it;

       (b)    state its expiry date;

       (c)    provide for sight payment to the Receiver General for Canada 
              by way of the financial institutions's draft against 
              presentation of a written demand for payment signed by the 
              authorized departmental representative identified in the 
              letter of credit by hisoffice;

       (d)    provide that more than one written demand for payment may be 
              presented subject to the sum of those demands not exceeding 
              the face amount of the letter of credit;

       (e)    provide that it is subject to the International Chamber of 
              Commerce (ICC) Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary 
              Credits, 1993 Revision, ICC Publication No 500;

       (f)    clearly specify that it is irrevocable or deemed to be 
              irrevocable pursuant to article 6c) of the ICC Uniform 
              Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, 1993 Revision, 
              ICC Publication No 500; and

       (g)    be issued or confirmed, in either official language, by a 
              financial institution which is a member of the Canadian 
              Payments Association and shall be on the letterhead of the 
              Issuer or Confirmer. The format is left to the discretion of 
              the Issuer or Confirmer. 

2.     (a)    The Contractor shall deposit with the Minister a security 
              deposit in the amount of $ _____ within _____ days of the 
              Contract date.  If, for any reason, the Minister does not 
              receive, within the specified period, the Contract executed 
              by the Contractor and the security deposit in the amount set 
              out above, the Minister may retain the bid security provided 
              and may accept any offer, seek new bids, negotiate a contract 
              or not accept any bids as the Minister may deem advisable.

       (b)    If the security deposit is in the form of a coupon bond, the 
              bond shall have attached thereto all coupons that are 
              unmatured at the time the security deposit is given. The 
              Minister may, from time to time, detach matured coupons and 
              send them to the Contractor at the address provided for by 
              this agreement for the sending of notices, unless advised 
              otherwise by the Contractor.

       (c)    If the security deposit is in the form of a bill of exchange, 
              the Minister shall deposit it in an open account in the 
              Consolidated Revenue Fund. Security deposits in the form of 
              the bills of exchange that are deposited to the credit of the 
              Consolidated Revenue Fund shall bear simple interest, 
              calculated on the basis of the rates which are in effect 
              during the period that the deposit is held.

              These rates are published monthly by the Department of 
              Finance and are set to be equal to the average yield on 
              90-day Treasury Bills less 1/8 of 1 percent. Interest shall 
              be paid annually or when the security deposit is returned to 
              the Contractor, if earlier. A Contractor may, however, 
              request the Minister to hold and not cash the bill of 
              exchange, in which case no interest will become payable.

3.     The Minister may convert the security deposit to the use of Canada 
       if any circumstance exists which would entitle the Minister to 
       terminate the Contract for default, but any such conversion shall 
       not constitute termination.

4.     Where the Minister so converts the security deposit:

       (a)    the proceeds thereof shall be used to complete the Work 
              according to the terms of the Contract to the nearest extent 
              that it is feasible to do so and any balance left thereafter 
              shall be returned to the Contractor on completion of the 
              warranty period; and

       (b)    if the Minister enters into an agreement outside the Contract 
              to have the Work completed, the Contractor shall:

              (1)    be deemed to have irrevocably abandoned the Work; and

              (2)    remain liable for the excess cost of completing the 
                     Work if the amount of the security deposit is not 
                     sufficient for such purpose. ("Excess cost" means any 
                     amount over and above the amount of the Contract Price 
                     remaining unpaid together with the amount of the 
                     security deposit.)

5.     If the Minister does not convert the security deposit to the use of 
   Canada prior to the date of completion of the warranty period, the 
   Minister shall return the security deposit to the Contractor within a 
   reasonable time after such date.
</pre>