<pre>1.     Time is of the essence of the Contract.

2.     Any delay by the Contractor in performing its obligations under the 
       Contract which is caused by an event beyond the control of the 
       Contractor, and which could not have been circumvented by the 
       Contractor without incurring unreasonable cost, through the use of 
       alternative sources, work-around plans, or other means, constitutes 
       an excusable delay. Events may include but are not restricted to 
       acts of God, acts of Canada, acts of local or provincial governments, 
       fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes or labour 
       unrest, freight embargoes and unusually severe weather.

3.     The time for completing the Work which has been or is likely to be 
       delayed by reason of an excusable delay shall be extended by a 
       period equal to the length of the excusable delay, provided that the 
       Contractor shall give notice, in writing, of any excusable delay to 
       the Minister within two (2) weeks of the start of the excusable 
       delay. The notice shall contain a description of the delay and of 
       the portion of the Work affected by the delay.

4.     Within two (2) weeks from the date of the giving of notice of 
       excusable delay, the Contractor shall deliver a description, in 
       writing, of its work-around plans including alternative sources and 
       any other means that it will utilize to overcome the delay and 
       endeavour to prevent any further delay. The description shall be in 
       form, substance and detail satisfactory to the Minister.

5.     If the Contractor should not give the notice of excusable delay or 
       should not deliver its work-around plans in accordance with the 
       times stipulated, any delay shall not constitute an excusable delay.

6.     The Contractor shall implement such work-around plans only where the 
   plans will not cause any additional cost to Canada. In the event the 
   implementation of such work-around plans will cause additional cost to 
   Canada, it shall be authorized by an amendment to the Contract. 
</pre>