<pre>1.     In accordance with the requirements of Part III of the Employment 
       Standards Act, specifically, Part XIII.2 "Successor Employers" of 
       the Act, subsection 56.11 (3), the following information concerning 
       the employees of the previous employer providing services at the 
       Premises is attached hereto:

       a)     a list of incumbered positions and a job description for each 
              of the positions;
       
       b)     the wage rates for each position;

       c)     the number of persons employed in each position at the 
              premises; and

       d)     for each position, the incumbent's seniority, and his/her 
              hours and schedule of work.

2.     The name, address and telephone number of each employee as they 
       appear in the previous employer's records will be provided to the 
       successful bidder after award of the Contract.

3.     In addition to the above information, a copy of either the 
       collective agreement, union certificate, or pending union 
       applications regarding the employees at the premises is also 
       attached, if applicable.

4.     Bidders shall use the information referred to in subparagraphs 1.a) 
       to 1.d) (and paragraph 3 if applicable) above only for the purposes 
       of preparing their bids and complying with the Act, and shall not 
       disclose such information except as may be authorized by the 
       Minister in writing.

5.     The enclosed information concerning the employees of the previous 
       employer providing services at the premises has been received from 
       the previous employer and the Minister is unable to warrant its 
       accuracy or completeness.  If you require verification or further 
       information, please contact: _____

6.     Canada does not warrant the accuracy or completeness of any 
   information concerning the employees of the previous employer providing 
   services at the premises, nor shall it be responsible for any damage or 
   loss which may result from use of or reliance upon any of this 
   information.
</pre>