<pre>To supply both prescription and non-prescription safety glasses and slip-on 
cases to members of divisions of the National Research Council of Canada, 
located in the Ottawa area.  The lenses are to be hardened after 
prescription grinding.  Safety glasses must conform to CSA Specification 
Z94.3-M1982.

TYPES OF FRAMES:

Class 1(a)    Spectacles without side shields. 
Class 1(b)    Spectacles with cup-type side shields. 
Class 1(c)    Spectacles with semi or flat-fold side shields. 
Class 1(d)    Spectacles without side shields for radiation protection. 
Class 1(e)    Spectacles with cup-type side shields for radiation 
                     protection. 
Class 1(f)    Spectacles with semi or flat-fold side shields for radiation 
                     protection.

ORDERING PROCEDURES:

1.  The supplier will provide forms to be completed in part by the division, 
and given to the employee for whom glasses have been authorized.  These 
forms bear the NRC order number.

2.  The employee will arrange for a prescription examination and required 
fitting with an oculist, optician, or optometrist of his own choice, and 
will request the prescription form specifying the types of frames to be 
forwarded to the supplier.

3.  The supplier will provide the specified glasses, frames and slip-on 
case to the oculist, optician, or optometrist who will call in the employee 
for a fitting and deliver the glasses.  The cost of the prescription 
examination will be borne entirely by the employee.

4.  In submitting covering amounts for glasses provided, identified by the 
employee involved, the supplier will indicate a cost breakdown on type of 
lenses supplied, differentiating between normal single vision lenses and 
bifocals or other expensive types of correctives lenses.

5.  SERVICE MUST BE PROVIDED IN BOTH OFFICIAL LANGUAGES.

6.  SITE AUTHORITIES:  The following authorities of the National Research 
Council of Canada, as designated on form DSS-MAS 942, Call-up Against a 
Standing Offer.

REQUISITION NUMBER                    FINANCIAL CODE

1. 

2. 

3. 

</pre>