<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>This clause must be used in aircraft charter contractual documents.  In the 
event that additional premiums are incurred by a contractor to comply with the 
Cross Liability clause (B of clause G2010D, "Liability Clauses"), then the 
"CROSS LIABILITY" clause could be replaced by the "SEVERABILITY OF INTEREST" 
clause stated in section 5 of the following clause.
</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     The Contractor shall not provide a domestic aircraft charter service 
       or an international aircraft charter service to Canada unless, for 
       every incident related to the Contractor's operation of that service, 
       it has:

       (a)    Liability insurance covering risks of injury to or death of 
              passengers in an amount that is not less than the amount 
              determined by multiplying $300,000 by the number of passenger 
              seats on board the aircraft engaged in the service; and

       (b)    Insurance covering risks of public liability in an amount 
              that is not less than:

              (i)    $1,000,000, where the Maximum Certified Take-off 
                     Weight (MCTOW) of the aircraft engaged in the service 
                     is not greater than 7,500 pounds;

              (ii)   $2,000,000, where the MCTOW of the aircraft engaged in 
                     the service is greater than 7,500 pounds but not 
                     greater than 18,000 pounds; and,

              (iii)  where the MCTOW of the aircraft engaged in the service 
                     is greater than 18,000 pounds, $2,000,000 plus an 
                     amount determined by multiplying $150 by the number of 
                     pounds by which the MCTOW of the aircraft exceeds 18,000 
                     pounds.

2.     The insurance coverage required by paragraph 1.(a) need not extend 
       to any passenger who is an employee of the Contractor if workers' 
       compensation legislation governing a claim for damages against that 
       Contractor by the employee is applicable.

3.     The Contractor shall not take out third party liability insurance to 
       comply with section 1 that contains an exclusion or waiver provision 
       reducing insurance coverage for any incident below the applicable 
       minima determined pursuant to that subsection, unless that provision:

       (a)    consists of standard exclusion clauses adopted by the 
              international aviation insurance industry dealing with:

              (i)    war, hijacking and other perils;

              (ii)   noise and pollution and other perils; or,

              (iii)  aviation radioactive contamination;   

       (b)    is in respect of chemical drift;
       
       (c)    is to the effect that the insurance does not apply to 
              liability assumed by the Contractor under any contract or 
              agreement unless such liability would have attached to the 
              Contractor even in the absence of such contract or agreement; 
              or

       (d)    is to the effect that the entire policy shall be void if the 
              Contractor has concealed or misrepresented any material fact 
              or circumstance concerning the insurance or the subject 
              thereof or if there has been any fraud, attempted fraud or 
              false statement by the Contractor touching any matter 
              relating to the insurance or the subject thereof, whether 
              before or after a loss.

Notwithstanding paragraphs 3.(b) and 3.(c), the Contractor's liability 
stipulated in the Contract terms and conditions shall remain unchanged.

4.     The Contractor may have a commercial single limit liability coverage 
       where liability risks are covered by a single policy or a 
       combination of primary and excess policies, but no single limit 
       liability coverage of that Contractor shall be for an amount that is 
       less than the applicable combined insurance minima determined 
       pursuant to paragraphs (1)(a) and (1)(b).

5.     In the event that additional premiums are incurred by a Contractor 
       to comply with the Cross Liability clause(B of clause G2010D "
       LIABILITY CLAUSES"), the inclusion of the following Severability of 
       Interests clause will be acceptable:

"The insurance afforded applies separately to each insured against whom the 
   claim is made or is brought, except with respect to the limit of 
   insurer's liability."
</pre>