<pre>In the event of Design Changes, whether introduced by the Owner or the 
Contractor, the detailed procedure given below must be followed:   

Design Changes Originating from the Customer Department:   

       a. The customer department will inform the Department of Supply and 
       Services of the Design Change requirement giving sufficient details.  

       b. The Department of Supply and Services will forward this 
       information to the Contractor requesting him to submit estimates for 
       the work on a Firm Price basis wherever possible (increased or 
       decreased).   

       c. The Contractor will submit his estimate supported by full details 
       to the Department of Supply and Services on form DSS-MAS 1686, "
       Quotation for Design Change or Additional Work".   

       d. The Department of Supply and Services will evaluate and negotiate 
       with the Contractor as necessary and, upon agreement being reached, 
       authorize the work and amend the Contract accordingly.   

Design Changes Originating from the Contractor:   

       a. The Contractor will submit his proposal to the Department of 
       Supply and Services supported by full details including 
       specifications and drawings if necessary, and reasons for the 
       submission, together with his estimated cost (increased or decreased) 
       for the work, and request approval for same.   

       b. If approved, the Department of Supply and Services will negotiate 
       with the Contractor, finalize prices, authorize the Work and amend 
       the Contract. If not approved, the Department of Supply and Services 
       will advise the Contractor. If approved with the modifications, the 
       procedures outlined under "Design Changes Originating from the 
       Customer Department" will be followed. 

Local Approvals:   

       a. For Design Changes of a minor nature and low-dollar value, and 
       particularly those requiring urgent decisions, WHEREVER POSSIBLE, 
       these will be dealt with by the Contracting Authority on site.   

       b. The Contracting Authority will negotiate "Firm Price" with the 
       Contractor for the work and will then discuss same with the 
       Technical Authority and, upon agreement, will approve and advise the 
       Contractor to proceed.   
 
       c. The Contract will be amended.   

       d. Forms will be provided for the proper reporting of the above and 
   individual and cumulative maximum dollar values will be set for such 
   work beyond which the on-site Contracting Authority cannot authorize but 
   must submit to the Department of Supply &amp; Services for authorization. 
</pre>