<pre>1.  The price(s) in Canadian funds include(s) foreign currency component(s) 
in respect of goods and/or services originating outside of Canada as 
detailed in form DSS-MAS 9411, Claim for Exchange Rates Adjustments, which 
forms part of this Contract.

2.  The foreign currency component is defined as the element of the price 
which will be affected by exchange rate fluctuations and it includes the 
duty-paid value (value in Canadian funds of the foreign component including 
customs duty) plus goods and services tax and excise taxes of an ad valorem 
nature on imported items, as well as transportation costs payable in 
foreign currency.

3.  The foreign currency component(s) subject to adjustment in respect of 
goods and services purchased outside of Canada, or from authorized Canadian 
agents, and the applicable conversion factors are as detailed in form 
DSS-MAS 9411 which forms part of this Contract.

4.  Price adjustments in respect of changes in currency relationships after 
the effective date stated in the Contract will apply.  They will be based 
upon the foreign currency component(s) as identified in form DSS-MAS 9411.  
Price adjustments will be computed according to the increase or decrease in 
the foreign exchange rate(s) from the rate(s) specified in the form. Such 
increases or decreases in the rate shall be based on the dates of payment 
to the Contractor's suppliers, if such payments are  made within thirty (30) 
calendar days of the date of importation.  If payment to the Contractor's 
supplier is not made within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of 
importation, Canada may select the rate most advantageous to it within the 
30-day period.

5.  The amount of the adjustment so payable shall be the sum of:  a) the 
portion of the stated foreign currency component from form DSS-MAS 9411 
included in the first progress claim, multiplied by the difference between 
the actual rate for foreign currency and the rate for foreign currency 
stated, as indicated in the form ;  and b)  any amounts calculated in a 
similar fashion on each subsequent progress claim, subject to the provision 
that such calculation will terminate as soon as the full amount of the 
stated foreign currency component, as shown at section C of the form, has 
been reached.

6.  On each progress claim submitted, the Contractor shall show the portion 
of the stated foreign currency component in foreign funds included in the 
claim.  If the progress claim, in whole or in part, relates to goods 
actually cleared through customs into Canada and not previously claimed on 
progress claims, the Contractor shall show the dates that the goods were 
cleared through customs, supported by a receipted copy of the relevant 
customs import entry form.  In addition, evidence of payment to the 
Contractor's supplier, satisfactory to the Minister, shall be submitted 
with the claim.  The Contractor will also show rates for the foreign 
currency current in Canada on the dates determined in form DSS-MAS 9411 and 
the adjusted prices resulting therefrom.

7.  The Minister shall have the right to audit any revision of price under 
   this clause. 
</pre>