<pre>1.     Monthly progress payments will be made up to ____ percent of the 
       costs and charges incurred in accordance with the Basis of Payment, 
       but not in excess of ____ percent of the value of the Contract, 
       provided that: 

       (a)    the Contractor submits promptly after the first day of each 
              month to the Contracting Authority a fully completed Claim 
              for Progress Payment, form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111. The following 
              details must be included:

              (i)    expenditures in accordance with the Basis of Payment 
                     for the work for the preceding month;

              (ii)   holdback of ____ percent;

              (iii)  goods and services tax.

              A sample of form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111 is attached as Annex "_____."

       (b)    the claim is accompanied by the required copies of monthly 
              progress reports, prepared in accordance with the clause 
              entitled "Monthly Progress Reports", detailed in this 
              Contract; 

       (c)    the progress report is accepted by the Technical Authority 
              and the Contracting Authority;

       (d)    the claim is approved; 

       (e)    two (2) sets of backup documentation (receipts, vouchers, etc.) 
              to support the claim are supplied to the Contracting 
              Authority designated herein. 

2.     The Contractor shall prepare and certify an original and four (4) 
       copies of its claim on form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111. The claim will be 
       forwarded to the Contracting Authoriry who will certify the claim 
       and forward it to the Technical Authority for certification and 
       payment.

3.     The balance owing will be paid to the Contractor, subject to:

       (a)    completion and acceptance of the Work; 
       (b)    the submission of all deliverable items to the Technical 
              Authority; 

       (c)    the approval of the final claim by the Technical Authority 
              and the Contracting Authority.

4.     Progress payments shall be regarded as interim payments only and 
       Canada shall have the right to conduct interim cost/time 
       verifications or audits and to make adjustments from time to time 
       during the performance of the Work. Any overpayments resulting from 
       such progress payments or otherwise shall be refunded promptly to 
       Canada.

5.     Payment by Canada to the Contractor for the Work shall be made:

       (a)    in the case of a progress payment other than the final 
              payment, within thirty (30) days following the date of 
              receipt of a duly completed Claim for Progress Payment, form 
              PWGSC-TPSGC 1111; or

       (b)    in the case of a final payment, within thirty (30) days 
              following the date of receipt of a duly completed final "
              Claim for Progress Payment", form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111, or within 
              thirty (30) days following the date on which the work is 
              completed, whichever date is the later; 

       (c)    if Canada has any objection to the form of the progress claim, 
              within fifteen (15) days of its receipt, Canada shall notify 
              the Contractor of the nature of the objection. "Form of the 
              claim" means a claim which contains or is accompanied by such 
              substantiating documentation as Canada requires.  Failure by 
              Canada to act within fifteen (15) days will only result in 
              the date specified in paragraphs 5(a) and (b) of this clause 
              applying for the sole purpose of calculating interest on 
              overdue accounts.


</pre>