<pre>A.  Instructions

1.   This is a request (hereinafter referred to as a Request for Proposal 
or RFP) that proposals be developed and submitted to the Minister of Supply 
and Services setting out the alternative means by which several technical, 
performance, time and other goals and objectives may be best met, having 
regard to stated mandatory requirements.  The Minister will consider 
entering into contract for the implementation of the most acceptable 
proposal which will be determined having regard to the evaluation factors 
set out in this RFP.  In addition, the proposal will be measured against 
the contract terms and conditions set forth in this RFP.

2.   a) To submit your proposal, return signed original of this form, duly
       completed, using the enclosed envelope.  Ensure that your firm's 
       name, SSC number, RFP closing date and time appear in window of 
       return envelope.  Do not use this envelope for enquiries. Proposals 
       submitted by telegraphic means are acceptable, provided they are 
       received prior to the time specified for closing of proposals and 
       contain the proposal reference number and closing date.  Telegraphic 
       proposals will constitute your formal proposal. Such proposals must 
       be comprehensive and in sufficient detail so as to permit complete 
       evaluation in accordance with the criteria set out herein.  The 
       Minister may consider entering into contract without negotiation on 
       the basis of such telegraphic proposal.

       b) The bidder has the sole responsibility for the timely dispatch 
       and delivery of a bid and cannot transfer such responsibility to the 
       Crown.

3.   Proposals may be accepted in whole or in part and the lowest or any 
proposal will not necessarily be accepted.  In case of error in the 
extension of prices, the unit price will govern. Proposals will remain open 
for acceptance for a period of not less than sixty (60) days from closing 
date of this RFP, unless otherwise indicated herein by SSC.  All late 
proposals will be returned unopened. Proposals mailed at least forty eight 
(48) hours prior to the closing time and date (96 hours outside Canada) and 
are delayed in the mail, will be considered, provided evidence of timely 
mailing is supported by certification of registered mail, special delivery 
or by postage cancellation. (Note: postage meter imprints are not 
acceptable as proof of timely mailing.)

B.   Conditions

1.   a) Excluding the exceptions noted below, the contractor shall not
       invoice or collect any ad valorem sales tax levied by the province 
       in which the goods or taxable services are delivered to federal 
       government departments and agencies under authority of the following 
       provincial sales tax licences:

                     Newfoundland            32243-0-09      
                     Quebec                  10-0813-5602-0001
                     Prince Edward Island    OP-10000-250    
                     Ontario                 11708174G
                     Nova Scotia             U84-00-03172-3  
                     Manitoba                390516-0
                     New Brunswick           P87-60-01648    
                     British Columbia        005521

       b) Exceptions

              (1) petroleum products subject to provincial gasoline and 
              motive fuel taxes;

              (2) tobacco products;

              (3) prepared meals and transient living accommodation;

              (4) broadcast advertising services (Quebec / Newfoundland) 
              and all other advertising in Newfoundland;

              (5) amusements and/or entertainment taxes.

       c) In Alberta and Saskatchewan, provincial sales taxes do not apply 
       to goods or taxable services delivered to the federal government 
       under this contract.

       d) The contractor is not relieved of any obligation to pay 
       provincial sales taxes on goods or taxable services used or consumed 
       in the performance of this contract, including materials 
       incorporated in real property. 

2.   If transportation charges are payable by Her Majesty under the terms 
of this contract, shipments are to be made by the most direct and 
economical means consistent with normal shipping practice, unless otherwise 
directed.  They are to be shown as a separate item on the invoice.

3.   Valuation:  The federal government's policy of underwriting its own 
risks precludes payment of any excess valuation and/or transportation 
charges beyond the specified FOB point (the point at which title of goods 
passed to the federal government). Goods will be covered to the carrier's 
maximum liability and value will be declared only when additional costs 
will not be incurred.  

4.   The work is subject to inspection and acceptance at destination, 
   unless otherwise specified herein.  
</pre>