<pre>1.     United States (U.S.) government property in excess of the 
       Contractor's requirement under this Contract, which is not being 
       returned to the U.S., may be disposed of in Canada by the Canadian 
       Commercial Corporation (CCC) by sale to the Government of Canada, or 
       sold or disposed of through the Crown Assets Distribution Centre 
       (CADC) of the Department of Public Works and Government Services or, 
       in special cases directed to a buyer.

2.     Disposal of surplus goods or equipment will be accomplished in the 
       following manner:

       (a)    Upon completion of this Contract, or at such earlier date as 
              may be fixed by CCC, the Contractor shall prepare and submit 
              to the Contracting Officer ten (10) copies of an inventory 
              schedule of all surplus U.S. government property at its plant, 
              classified as new serviceable, used serviceable or repairable, 
              used unserviceable or scrap, and the estimated cost of 
              acquisition.

       (b)    Copies of the inventory schedule will be submitted to CCC for 
              screening by the U.S. government and subsequent disposal 
              instructions. Items to be returned to the U.S. will be 
              packaged and packed for shipment in accordance with 
              instructions issued by CCC.

       (c)    After the property has been accepted for sale by Surplus 
              Crown Assets and subject to the provisions of subsection (b) 
              above, the reports of excess shall not be modified, cancelled 
              subsection or withdrawn except by mutual consent of Surplus 
              Crown Assets or CCC.

<strong>DISPOSAL OF SCRAP:</strong>

1.     Surplus property certified as scrap by the inspector will be 
       disposed of in accordance with the following procedure:

       (a)    Six (6) copies of the certified list will be forwarded to the 
              Contracting Authority of CCC for screening by Revenue Canada, 
              who may conduct a physical check in order that a customs 
              appraisal can be made and entry accepted from the purchaser 
              in accordance with the appropriate tariff item. (Steel scrap 
              is free of duty but subject to sales tax and when sold to a 
              licensed manufacturer or wholesaler the entry may be accepted 
              free of tax by the purchaser quoting thereon his license 
              number).
 
       (b)    After appraisal by Revenue Canada, a copy of the list will be 
              forwarded to the Contractor by the Contracting Authority and 
              the Contractor shall obtain at least three (3) bids (if 
              applicable). The highest bid will be accepted.

       (c)    The Contractor will issue a cheque for the proceeds of the 
              sale, made payable to CCC and forward it to the Comptroller, 
              CCC. The transmittal letter should include adequate 
              information to assist CCC in identifying the disposal.


</pre>