<pre><strong>9601-6 00     (15/06/98)    Contractor to Own Foreground Information</strong>


<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Disclosure of Foreground Information
03     Contractor to Own Foreground Information
04     Foreground Information License
05     Background Information License
06     Reconveyance of Title
07     Sale and Licensing of Foreground Information




<strong>9601-6 01     (04/01/94)    Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract,

       "<strong>Background Information</strong>" means all Technical Information that is not 
       Foreground Information and that is proprietary to or the 
       confidential information of the Contractor, its subcontractors or 
       any other supplier of the Contractor;

       "<strong>Firmware</strong>" means computer programs stored in integrated circuits, 
       read-only memory or other similar devices;

       "<strong>Foreground Information</strong>" means any Invention first conceived, 
       developed or reduced to practice as part of the Work under the 
       Contract and all Technical Information conceived, developed or 
       produced as part of the Work under the Contract;

       "<strong>General Conditions</strong>" means General Conditions - Long Form, DSS-MAS 
       9601;

       "<strong>Invention</strong>" means any new and useful art, process, methodology, 
       technique, machine, manufacture or composition of matter, or any new 
       and useful improvement of any art, process, methodology, technique, 
       machine, manufacture or composition of matter, whether or not 
       patentable;

       "<strong>Software</strong>" means computer programs whether in source or object code 
       (including Firmware), computer program documentation recorded in any 
       form or medium, and computer data bases, and includes modifications 
       to any of the foregoing;

       "<strong>Technical Information</strong>" means all information of a scientific or 
       technical nature relating to the Work, whether oral or recorded in 
       any form or medium and whether or not copyrightable, including but 
       not limited to any Inventions, designs, methods, processes, 
       techniques, know-how, models, prototypes, patterns, samples, 
       schematics, experimental or test data, reports, drawings, plans, 
       specifications, photographs, collections of information, manuals and 
       any other documents, and Software.

2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these Supplemental General Conditions shall have the meanings 
       assigned to them in the General Conditions.

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these Supplemental General Conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these Supplemental General Conditions shall prevail.

4.     The General Conditions are amended by deleting the section entitled 
       "Copyright" in its entirety.

 
<strong>9601-6 02     (04/01/94)    Disclosure of Foreground Information</strong><strong></strong>

1.     The Contractor shall promptly report and fully disclose to the 
       Minister all Foreground Information that could be Inventions, and 
       shall report and fully disclose to the Minister all other Foreground 
       Information not later than the time of completion of the Work or at 
       such earlier time as the Minister or the Contract may require.

2.     The Contractor shall, in each disclosure under this section, 
       indicate the names of all subcontractors at any tier, if any, in 
       which intellectual property rights to any Foreground Information 
       have vested or will vest.

3.     Before and after final payment to the Contractor, the Minister shall 
       have the right to examine all records and supporting data of the 
       Contractor which the Minister reasonably deems pertinent to the 
       identification of Foreground Information.


<strong>9601-6 03     (04/01/94)    Contractor to Own Foreground Information</strong>

1.     Subject to section 6 (Reconveyance of Title) and without divesting 
       Canada or any other party of intellectual property rights that have 
       come into being prior to the Contract or that relate to information 
       supplied by Canada during the Contract, copyright, patent and all 
       other intellectual property rights to all Foreground Information 
       shall, immediately upon its conception, development, reduction to 
       practice or production, vest in and remain the property of the 
       Contractor.

2.     Notwithstanding the Contractor's ownership of the Foreground 
       Information in any prototype or in any custom system or equipment 
       delivered under the Contract, Canada shall have unrestricted 
       ownership rights in those deliverables, including the right to make 
       them available for public use, whether for a fee or otherwise, and, 
       except in the case of Software that is not Firmware, the right to 
       sell them.


<strong>9601-6 04     (04/01/94)    Foreground Information License</strong>

1.     The Contractor hereby grants to Canada a non-exclusive, irrevocable, 
       worldwide, fully-paid and royalty-free license to use any Foreground 
       Information for the following purposes:

       (a)    for the use, operation, maintenance, repair or overhaul of 
              the Work;

       (b)    for the purpose of manufacturing spare parts for maintenance, 
              repair or overhaul of any part of the Work by Canada if those 
              parts are not reasonably available to enable timely 
              maintenance, repair or overhaul; 
       (c)    for further development of or alteration of any part of the 
              Work; and

       (d)    for disclosure to other governments for information purposes 
              only.

       Without limiting the foregoing, Canada's license with respect to any 
       Foreground Information that is Software includes the right to modify 
       that Software, and, where applicable, to use it, or any modified 
       form of it, on any and all computer systems owned, leased or 
       operated by Canada anywhere in the world.

2.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, if any Foreground Information arises 
       solely from correction by the Contractor of errors in Background 
       Information that is Software, or from minor modifications made by 
       the Contractor to that Software, then the license set out in 
       subsection 1 shall not apply to that Foreground Information and, 
       unless otherwise agreed, the license that applies to that Background 
       Information shall apply to that Foreground Information.

3.     The Contractor acknowledges that Canada may wish to award contracts 
       for any of the purposes contemplated in subsection 1 and agrees that 
       Canada's license in relation to the Foreground Information includes 
       the right to license or otherwise authorize the use of that 
       information by any contractor engaged by Canada solely for the 
       purpose of carrying out such a contract.  In any such contract 
       Canada shall require the contractor not to use or disclose any 
       Foreground Information except as may be necessary to carry out that 
       contract.

4.     Where Foreground Information is or will be owned by a Subcontractor, 
       the Contractor shall either obtain a license from the Subcontractor 
       to comply with subsection 1 or arrange for the Subcontractor to 
       convey directly to Canada the same rights by execution of the form 
       provided for that purpose by the Minister, in which case the 
       Contractor shall deliver that form to the Minister, duly completed 
       and executed by the Subcontractor, no later than the time of 
       disclosure to Canada of that Foreground Information.

5.     If the Contractor reasonably requires any Canada-owned Technical 
       Information that was supplied under the Contract for commercial 
       exploitation of the Foreground Information, Canada is prepared to 
       license that information to the Contractor for that purpose on terms 
       and conditions to be negotiated between the Contractor and the 
       minister for whose department or agency the Work is being carried 
       out.  Those terms may include payment of compensation to Canada.


<strong>9601-6 05     (04/01/94)    Background Information License</strong> 
1.     In relation to any custom designed or manufactured part of the Work, 
       the Contractor hereby grants to Canada a non-exclusive, irrevocable, 
       worldwide, fully-paid and royalty-free license to use any Background 
       Information incorporated into the Work or necessary for the 
       performance of the Work as may be required solely for the following 
       purposes:

       (a)    for the use, operation, maintenance, repair or overhaul of 
              the custom parts of the Work;

       (b)    for the purpose of manufacturing spare parts for maintenance, 
              repair or overhaul of any custom part of the Work by Canada 
              if those parts are not reasonably available to enable timely 
              maintenance, repair or overhaul;

       (c)    for disclosure to any contractor engaged by Canada to be used 
              by that contractor solely for a purpose set out in paragraph 
              (a) or (b), but only if the Contractor is unable or unwilling 
              to carry out the maintenance, repair or overhaul or provide 
              the spare parts on reasonable commercial terms and within 
              reasonable delivery times;

       and the Contractor agrees to make any such Background Information 
       (including, in the case of Software, source code) promptly available 
       to Canada for any such purpose.

2.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, the license set out therein shall not 
       apply to any Software that is subject to detailed license conditions 
       that are set out elsewhere in the Contract.

3.     The Contractor shall not, without the written permission of the 
       Minister, incorporate into the Work any Background Information 
       unless the Contractor owns or has procured the rights necessary to 
       provide the license to Canada set out in this section, or any 
       Background Information that would restrict in any way Canada's 
       rights in relation to the Foreground Information, including the 
       right to license other contractors as set out in subsections 04 3 
       and 05 1.


<strong>9601-6 06     (04/01/94)    Reconveyance of Title</strong>

1.     Until the Contractor completes the Work and discloses all of the 
       Foreground Information in accordance with section 2 (Disclosure of 
       Foreground Information), it shall not, without the prior written 
       permission of the Minister, assign or otherwise transfer title to 
       any of the Foreground Information or license or otherwise authorize 
       the use of any of the Foreground Information by any person.

2.     If Canada terminates the Contract in whole or in part for default, 
       or if the Contractor fails to disclose any Foreground Information in 
       accordance with section 2, the Minister may, by notice given not 
       later than 90 days from the date of termination or from the date 
       Canada learns of the failure to disclose, as the case may be, 
       require the Contractor to convey to Canada all of the intellectual 
       property rights to all the Foreground Information or, in the case of 
       a notice based on failure to disclose, all of the intellectual 
       property rights to the Foreground Information not disclosed.  In the 
       case of either notice, the rights to be conveyed shall include the 
       rights to any Foreground Information that have vested or are to vest 
       in a Subcontractor.  In the case of Foreground Information which has 
       been sold or assigned to a party other than a Subcontractor, the 
       Contractor shall not be obligated to convey title to Canada in 
       accordance with this section, but shall pay to Canada on demand an 
       amount equal to the consideration which it received from the sale or 
       assignment of that Foreground Information or, in the case of a sale 
       or assignment that was not at arm's length, the fair market value of 
       that Foreground Information, including the value of future royalties 
       or license fees.

3.     In the event of the issuance by the Minister of a notice under 
       subsection 2, the Contractor shall, at its own expense and without 
       delay, execute such conveyances or other documents relating to title 
       as the minister for whose department or agency the Work is being 
       carried out may require, and the Contractor shall, at Canada's 
       expense, afford that minister all reasonable assistance in the 
       prosecution of any patent application or registration of copyright 
       or an industrial design, including assistance of the inventor in the 
       case of Inventions.


<strong>9601-6 07     (04/01/94)    Sale and Licensing of Foreground Information</strong>

1.     In any transfer of title to or assignment or license of the 
       Foreground Information except a sale or license for end use of a 
       product based on the Foreground Information, the Contractor shall 
       impose on the other party all of its obligations to Canada in 
       relation to the Foreground Information and any restrictions set out 
       in the Contract on the use and disposition of the Foreground 
       Information, including the obligation to impose the same obligations 
       and restrictions on any subsequent transferee, assignee or licensee.

2.     The Contractor shall promptly notify Canada of the name, address and 
       other pertinent information in regard to any transferee, assignee or 
       licensee referred to in subsection 1, and shall ensure that such 
       party is required to do the same with regard to any subsequent 
       transferee, assignee or licensee.
 
3.     The Contractor shall not charge or permit any person to charge a 
       royalty or other fee to Canada in respect of any Foreground 
       Information for purposes of a contract or other arrangement with 
       Canada.  Where the contract is for a product based on the Foreground 
       Information or on any modification or improvement thereof, the 
       Contractor shall grant to Canada a reasonable credit against its 
       commercial price for that product to take into account Canada's 
       financial contribution toward the development of the product, and in 
       the case of a product owned by a transferee, assignee or licensee of 
       the Foreground Information, the Contractor shall ensure that such 
       party is required to do the same.


</pre>