<pre>In the event of Design Changes, Additional Work or New Work being 
introduced to the Contract, the procedure given below must be followed:

<strong>Design Changes, Additional or New Work Originating from the Technical 
Authority:</strong>

1.     The Technical Authority will inform the Contracting Authority of the 
       requirement, giving sufficient details.

2.     The Contracting Authority will forward this information to the 
       Contractor requesting estimates for the Work on a firm price basis 
       wherever possible (increased or decreased).

3.     The Contractor shall submit an estimate, supported by full details, 
       to the Contracting Authority on:

       (a)    form DSS-MAS 1686, "Quotation for Design Change or Additional 
              Work," or

       (b)    form DSS-MAS 1379, "Work Arising or New Work", or

       (c)    other forms as may be designated by the Contracting Authority.

4.     The Contracting Authority will evaluate and negotiate with the 
       Contractor as necessary and, upon agreement being reached, authorize 
       the Work and amend the Contract accordingly.

<strong>Design Changes, Additional or New Work Originating from the Contractor:</strong>

1.     The Contractor will submit the proposal to the Contracting Authority, 
       supported by full details including specifications and drawings if 
       necessary, and reasons for the submission, together with the 
       estimated cost (increased or decreased) for the Work, and request 
       approval for same.

2.     The Contracting Authority will present the proposal to the Technical 
       Authority for their review and approval. 
       (a)    If approved, the Contracting Authority will negotiate with 
              the Contractor, finalize prices, authorize the Work and amend 
              the Contract.

       (b)    If not approved, the Contracting Authority will advise the 
              Contractor.

       (c)    If approved with modifications, the procedures outlined under 
              "Design Changes .... Originating from the Technical Authority
              " will be followed.

<strong>Authority</strong>

The Contractor shall not proceed with any design change, additional work or 
new work without the written authorization of the Contracting Authority. 
Any work taken in hand without the Contracting Authority's written 
authorization shall be considered to be work carried out outside the scope 
of the known contracted work and no extra payment shall be made for any 
such work.

<strong>Local approvals: </strong>

1.     Design Changes of a minor nature and low-dollar value, and 
       particularly those requiring urgent decisions, WHEREVER POSSIBLE, 
       will be dealt with by the Contracting Authority's on-site 
       representative.

2.     The Contracting Authority's on-site representative will negotiate a 
       "firm price" with the Contractor for the Work, discuss same with the 
       Technical Authority and, upon agreement, approve and advise the 
       Contractor to proceed.

3.     The Contract will be amended.

4.     Forms will be provided for the proper reporting of the above 
       indicating individual and cumulative maximum dollar values.


</pre>