<pre>1.     The tooling listed herein shall be required for the performance of 
       this Contract.

2.     Cost of repair of damaged tooling through mishandling will be 
       charged against the Contractor.  Sharpening or slight nicking will 
       not be considered mishandling.

3.     Upon completion of contract, all related tooling owned by Canada on 
       loan agreement shall be inspected 100 percent by the Contractor for 
       condition and count.  Any unserviceable items found shall be 
       returned to serviceable condition.  Non-repairable items will be 
       reported to the Department of Supply and Services (DSS).

       Form CF 1280 will be prepared by the Contractor to confirm this has 
       been done and will list any components which have been lost or are 
       non-repairable.

       Department of National Defence (DND) (Canadian Forces Technical 
       Services Detachment) will verify action taken and DSS will authorize 
       release of tooling for return to DND or for use on next contract.

<strong>Return of Tooling</strong>

4.     Items shall be packaged in accordance with best commercial standards 
       to ensure safe arrival at destination.  The exterior of each box 
       being returned to Canadian Forces Supply Depots (CFSD's) shall be 
       identified as follows:

       (a)    description;
       (b)    NATO Stock Number;
       (c)    size;
       (d)    quantity.

5.     Items not identified or not packaged in accordance with this 
       requirement shall be returned to the Contractor.  The Contractor 
       shall be liable for return shipping costs and associated labour 
       costs involved.

6.     The cost of shipping the tooling to DND shall be paid by Canada 
       provided such costs have been approved by the DSS Contracting 
       Authority prior to shipment.  Terms shall be FOB Delivery 
       Destination.

7.     All terms and conditions of Loan Agreement form DSS-MAS 7118 (11/76), 
       and those under Section 21 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 9601 shall 
       form part of this Contract.

</pre>