<pre>Article 19.42 of the Queen's Regulations and Orders for the Canadian Forces, 
is reproduced below:

       "19.42 CIVIL EMPLOYMENT

       1.     Subject to paragraph 3. of this Article, no officer or 
              non-commissioned member on full-time service shall engage in 
              any civil employment or undertaking which in the opinion of 
              his commanding officer:

              (a)    is or is likely to be detrimental to the interests of 
                     the Canadian Forces; or

              (b)    reflects or is likely to reflect discredit upon the 
                     Canadian Forces; or

              (c)    in the case of officers and non-commissioned members 
                     of the Regular Force, is continuous.

       2.     No officer or non-commissioned member on full-time service 
              shall authorize the use of his name or photograph in 
              connection with a commercial product, except so far as his 
              name may be part of a firm name.

       3.     Except that he shall not engage in any civil employment or 
              undertaking which eflects or is likely to reflect discredit 
              upon the Canadian Forces, this article does not apply to an 
              officer or non-commissioned member who is:

              (a)    on leave immediately preceding release; or
              (b)    on leave without pay."

It is MANDATORY that bidders disclose the military employment status of all 
individuals proposed. Every individual proposed that is on full-time 
service with the Canadian Forces MUST, without exception, have included, as 
part of his or her résumé, a written clearance from the individual's 
commanding officer which contains a date as to when that individual will be 
available to provide the services specified herein. This written clearance 
must not be dated more than ninety (90) days prior to the Request for 
Proposal closing date. Any résumé provided that require the aforesaid 
written clearance and date of availability that fail to do so, will not be 
considered.

</pre>