<pre>1.  Cease all work under the contract in accordance with and to the extent 
specified in the notice of termination.  Read carefully the termination 
clause in your contract.

2.  Immediate steps are to be taken to terminate or reduce any subcontracts 
or orders to suppliers for materials and parts, this to the extent 
necessary to give effect to this notice of termination of contract.

3.  A list showing the names of all subcontractors and suppliers whose 
contracts or orders have been terminated pursuant to this notice is to be 
forwarded immediately to the responsible SSC contracting officer. Opposite 
the name and address of each subcontractor is to be shown the contract 
price or value of the cancelled portion of terminated subcontracts or 
orders.

4.  Where the contractor or any subcontractor or supplier proposes to make 
a claim based on or arising out of this notice, he is to take and is to 
instruct each of his subcontractors and suppliers affected by this notice 
to take a physical inventory of materials, manufactured or purchased parts, 
work-in-process, and finished goods acquired or on hand for the purpose of 
the contract, subcontract, or order terminated by this notice.

5.  Termination claims are to be prepared and submitted at the earliest 
possible moment being guided in connection therewith by the Manual of 
Procedure on the Termination of Contracts.

6.  The contents of this notice of termination of contract are confidential 
and must not be disclosed to any person or persons except those employees, 
subcontractors and/or suppliers to whom it may be necessary to make such 
disclosure to give effect to this notice of termination of contract.  Every 
person to whom the disclosure is made is to be informed that the 
prohibition contained in this paragraph applies similarly to them, their 
employees, subcontractors, and suppliers. Should the contractor or any of 
his subcontractors or suppliers be of the opinion that some publicity 
relative to this notice of termination of contract would be in the public 
interest, the proposal is to be submitted to the responsible SSC 
contracting officer for advice as to what, if any, publicity is permissible. 

</pre>