<pre>1.     The Contractor warrants that the deliverables resulting from the 
       services provided under this Contract shall meet the contractual 
       requirement so that the deliverables (as evidenced during acceptance 
       tests, as applicable) accurately and automatically process date and 
       date-related data including, but not limited to calculating, 
       comparing, and sequencing of such data from, into and between the 
       twentieth and the twenty-first centuries, and the years 1999 and 
       2000, and including leap year calculations when used in accordance 
       with the documentation provided by the Contractor and accepted by 
       Canada, provided that all electronic processing systems used with 
       the deliverables properly exchange accurate date and date-related 
       data with them. To that end, the Contractor also warrants that 
       date-related processing will not, in any way, prevent electronic 
       processing systems from conforming to the requirement of the 
       Contract prior to, during, or after the year 2000. Canada may, at no 
       additional cost, require the Contractor prior to the performance of 
       the services, to demonstrate compliance and/or compliance techniques 
       and test procedures it intends to follow in order to comply with all 
       of the obligations contained herein.

2.     The items under warranty include but are not limited to:

       - processors
       - memory (RAM, ROM, PROM, EPROM, etc.)
       - firmware or software
       - reliant systems or architecture
       - integrated circuits.

3.     The obligations contained herein apply to the services provided by 
       the Contractor and its subcontractor(s) involved in the performance 
       of this Contract.  Subject to the specific contractual requirement, 
       the obligations contained herein do not apply to electronic 
       processing systems provided as Government Property unless expressed 
       elsewhere in the Contract.

4.     The warranties contained herein are separate and discrete from any 
       other warranties specified in this Contract, and are not subject to 
       any disclaimer of warranty that may be specified in this Contract, 
       its appendices, its schedules, its annexes or any document 
       incorporated in this Contract by reference. Notwithstanding the 
       foregoing, the provisions set out in the applicable Supplemental 
       General Conditions, if any, under the section entitled "Warranty" 
       apply.

5.     The warranties contained herein shall have a term extending either:
       (a)    to June 30, 2000, or,
       (b)    for a period of six months following acceptance of the 
              hardware, software and/or firmware,

       whichever is the later date.

</pre>