<pre>Hazardous Material:

The nature, quantity and U.N. (United Nations) number of any hazardous 
material are to be included with each hazardous item, in accordance with 
the IMDG (International Maritime Dangerous Goods) Code and the latest IATA 
(International Air Transport Association) regulations.

Non-compliance with this requirement by the supplier will render him liable 
for any punitive action that may be taken by regulating authorities.

Documents are to be distributed as follows:

(A)  To CIDA, at the address to which invoices are to be forwarded.

       (1)  one (1) negotiable bill of lading, plus three (3) 
       non-negotiable copies;

       (2)  original and four (4) copies of the commercial invoice made out 
       to the Canadian International Development Agency;

       The Contractor shall include the following statement on all invoices:

              "We certify that prices on this invoice exclude the goods and 
              services tax, sales tax, refundable customs duty and excise 
              tax paid on goods or on parts and components incorporated in 
              the goods."

       (3)  five (5) copies of the packing list;

       (4)  one (1) copy of the inspection report, if inspection is 
       required by the Contract;

       (5)  one (1) copy of negotiable marine insurance certificate (when 
       on C.I.F. sea shipment basis).                                                         
       (B)  To the clearing agent (consignee if no clearing agent is stated 
       in the Contract):

       (1)  two (2) copies of negotiable bills of lading;

       (2)  two (2) copies of non-negotiable bills of lading;

       (3)  two (2) copies of the commercial invoice;

       (4)  two (2) copies of the packing list;

       (5)  original and one (1) copy of the negotiable marine insurance 
       certificate (when on C.I.F. sea shipment basis).
 
NOTE:  The above two (2) sets of documentation to the clearing agent are to 
be airmailed under two (2) separate covers to ensure safe arrival of at 
least one (1) set at the destination.

(C) To the DSS Contracting Officer:

       (1) one (1) copy of the commercial invoice.

PAYMENT:  Against commercial invoices and documentation as stated above by 
   the Canadian International Development Agency. 
</pre>