<pre><strong>9628 00       (15/09/97)    Purchase of Commercially Available Goods and 
                            Services under $25,000</strong>


1.     In the Contract,

       <strong>"Canada", "Crown",</strong> or <strong>"Her Majesty"</strong> means Her Majesty, the Queen in 
       right of Canada;

       <strong>"Contract"</strong> means these general conditions, any referenced provisions 
       and the agreement to which they are attached;

       <strong>"Minister"</strong> means the Minister of Public Works and Government 
       Services and any other person authorized to act on the Minister's 
       behalf. 

       <strong>"Work"</strong> means the whole of the work, services, materials, matters and 
       things required to be done, furnished and/or performed by the 
       Contractor in order to carry out the Contract;

2.     The Contractor represents and warrants that the Work will be of a 
       proper quality, free from any defect in material and workmanship, 
       and shall be in full conformity with all other contract requirements. 
       Notwithstanding prior acceptance of the Work and without restricting 
       any other term of the contract or any conditions, warranty or 
       provision implied or imposed by law, the Contractor, if requested by 
       the Minister, shall replace or repair at its own expense any work 
       which becomes defective or fails to conform to the Contract as the 
       result of faulty or inefficient manufacture, material or workmanship, 
       notice of which is provided to the Contractor within a reasonable 
       time during or after the warranty period which commences the day 
       after delivery and acceptance of the Work. The warranty period will 
       be ninety (90) days or the length of the Contractor's or 
       manufacturer's standard warranty period, whichever is longer. 

3.     Except as otherwise provided in the Contract, title to the Work or 
       any part thereof shall vest in Canada upon delivery to and 
       acceptance by Canada of the Work or any part thereof. Where title to 
       any work or any part thereof, or any rights vest in Canada under the 
       Contract, the Contractor shall execute such conveyances and other 
       documents relating to title as may be required to evidence the title 
       or rights of Canada. Unless otherwise specified in the Contract, 
       risk of loss or damage to the Work or any part thereof shall remain 
       with the Contractor until delivery to and acceptance by Canada.

4.     Payment by Canada for the Work shall be made following delivery, 
       inspection and acceptance of the Work, and following presentation of 
       invoices and such other documentation of which prior notice has been 
       furnished. The period for payment shall be within thirty (30) days, 
       calculated from the date the invoice is received, or the date of 
       receipt of the goods, whichever is the later date. Canada shall be 
       liable to pay, without demand from the Contractor, simple interest 
       at the Average Rate plus 3% per annum on any amount which is overdue 
       from the day such amount became overdue until the day prior  to the 
       date of payment, inclusive; however, interest will not be payable 
       nor paid unless the amount has been outstanding (unpaid) for more 
       than fifteen (15) days following the due date, unless requested by 
       the Contractor. Interest will not be payable on overdue advance 
       payments or if Canada is not responsible for the delay in payment. 
       The Average Rate is the simple arithmetic mean of the rates of 
       interest established by the Bank of Canada from time to time during 
       the month preceding payment.

5.     It is a term of this contract that payment under this contract is 
       subject to there being an appropriation for the particular 
       requirement for the fiscal year in which any commitment under this 
       contract would come in course of payment.

6.     Without prejudice to any other rights or remedies, if the Contractor 
       is in default in performance of the Contract or is bankrupt or 
       insolvent or in receivership, the Minister may terminate all or a 
       portion of the Contract. The Minister may at any time, by notice, 
       terminate the Contract or reduce the quantity or scope of the Work 
       to be delivered and the Contractor will give effect to such notice 
       thereof according to its terms. In such a case, all work delivered 
       and accepted and unpaid in accordance with the notice shall be paid 
       for in accordance with the pricing basis established in the Contract. 
       The Contractor shall be entitled to be reimbursed the actual costs 
       reasonably and properly incurred as a direct result of the 
       termination, but in no case shall such reimbursement exceed the 
       Contract Price or shall the Contractor have claim for damages, 
       compensation, loss of profit or otherwise, except as herein provided.

7.     The Contractor represents and covenants that no bribe, gift or other 
       inducement has been or will be paid, given, promised, or offered to 
       any official or employee of Canada for, or with a view to, the 
       obtaining of the Contract by the Contractor. No member of the House 
       of Commons shall be admitted to any share or part of the Contract or 
       to any benefit to arise therefrom.

8.     In the event of any change in any tax imposed under the Excise Act, 
       the Excise Tax Act, or any duties imposed under the Customs Tariff 
       or any other federal or provincial sales, excise or other like 
       duties, taxes, charges or impositions after the bid submission date 
       and which affects the costs to the Bidder/Contractor of the Work, 
       the Bid/Contract Price shall be adjusted to reflect the increase or 
       decrease in the cost to the Bidder/Contractor. 

9.     Time is of the essence of the Contract. 

10.    Canada,  in the course of meeting its international obligations, may 
       impose restrictions on trade, financial transactions or other 
       dealings with a foreign nation pursuant to the United Nations Act, 
       Special Economic Measures Act, or Export and Import Permits Act. The 
       Contractor undertakes to comply with such restrictions and agrees 
       that Canada has the right to terminate the Contract for default  and 
       recover damages for any breach by the Contractor of its undertaking. 
11.    Bidders are hereby notified that Canada may reject any bid in any of 
       the circumstances described in clause A9100T entitled "Vendor 
       Performance", as set out in the Public Works and Government Services 
       Canada Standard Acquisition Clauses and Conditions Manual.  Clause 
       A9100T, is hereby incorporated by reference into this document.


</pre>