<pre>1.  In this clause,

       "completion of warranty period" means the later of the date upon 
       which the warranty period expires by the passage of time or the date 
       upon which the obligations of the Contractor related to the warranty 
       provisions of the Contract have been fulfilled;

       "security deposit" means

       (a)  a bill of exchange

              (1)  that is payable to the Receiver General for Canada, and

              (2)  that is certified by an approved financial institution 
              or drawn by an approved financial institution on itself; or

       (b)  a Government guaranteed bond; or

       (c)  such other security as may be deemed appropriate by the 
       contracting authority (DSS) and approved by the Treasury Board;

       "approved financial institution" means

       (a)  any corporation or institution that is a member of the Canadian 
       Payments Association;

       (b)  a corporation that accepts deposits that are insured by the 
       Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Régie de 
       l'assurance-dépôts du Québec to the maximum permitted by law;

       (c)  a credit union as defined in paragraph 137 (6)(b) of the Income 
       Tax Act; or

       (d)  a corporation that accepts deposits from the public, if 
       repayment of the deposits is guaranteed by Her Majesty in right of a 
       province.

       "Government guaranteed bond" means a bond of the Government of 
       Canada or a bond unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and 
       interest by the Government of Canada that is

       (a)  payable to bearer; or

       (b)  accompanied by a duly executed instrument of transfer of the 
       bond to the Receiver General for Canada in accordance with the 
       Domestic Bonds of Canada Regulations; or

       (c)  registered in the name of the Receiver General for Canada. 
2.     (a) The Contractor shall deposit with the Minister a security 
       deposit in the amount of $ _____ within _____ days of the Contract 
       date.  If, for any reason, the Minister does not receive, within the 
       specified period, the Contract executed by the Contractor and the 
       security deposit in the amount set out above, the Minister may 
       retain the bid security provided and may accept any offer, seek new 
       bids, negotiate a contract or not accept any bids as the Minister 
       may deem advisable.

       (b)  If the security deposit is in the form of a coupon bond, the 
       bond shall have attached thereto all coupons that are unmatured at 
       the time the security deposit is given.  The Minister may, from time 
       to time, detach matured coupons and send them to the Contractor at 
       the address provided for by this agreement for the sending of 
       notices, unless advised otherwise by the Contractor.

       (c)  If the security deposit is in the form of a bill of exchange, 
       the Minister shall deposit it in an open account in the Consolidated 
       Revenue Fund.  Security deposits in the form of the bills of 
       exchange that are deposited to the credit of the Consolidated 
       Revenue Fund shall bear simple interest, calculated on the basis of 
       the rates which are in effect during the period that the deposit is 
       held.  These rates are published monthly by the Department of 
       Finance and are set to be equal to the average yield on 90-day 
       Treasury Bills less 1/8 of 1 percent.  Interest shall be paid 
       annually or when the security deposit is returned to the Contractor, 
       if earlier.  A Contractor may, however, request the Minister to hold 
       and not cash the bill of exchange, in which case no interest will 
       become payable.

3.  The Minister may convert the security deposit to the use of Canada if 
any circumstance exists which would entitle the Minister to terminate the 
Contract for default, but any such conversion shall not constitute 
termination.

4.  Where the Minister so converts the security deposit:

       (a)  the proceeds thereof shall be used to complete the Work 
       according to the terms of the Contract to the nearest extent that it 
       is feasible to do so and any balance left thereafter shall be 
       returned to the Contractor on completion of the warranty period; and

       (b)  if the Minister enters into an agreement outside the Contract 
       to have the Work completed, the Contractor shall:

              (1)  be deemed to have irrevocably abandoned the Work; and

              (2)  remain liable for the excess cost of completing the Work 
              if the amount of the security deposit is not sufficient for 
              such purpose.  ("Excess cost" means any amount over and above 
              the amount of the Contract Price remaining unpaid together 
              with the amount of the security deposit.)

5.  If the Minister does not convert the security deposit to the use of 
   Canada prior to the date of completion of the warranty period, the 
   Minister shall return the security deposit to the Contractor within a 
   reasonable time after such date. 
</pre>