<pre>1.     Progress payments, monthly or less frequently, will be made up to 
       100 percent of the costs and charges incurred or of the invoice that 
       has been received and accrued in the accounts payable, and in 
       accordance with the Basis of Payment, but not to exceed 90 percent 
       of the value of the Contract, provided that:

       (a)    the Contractor submits promptly after the first day of each 
              month to the Contracting Authority a fully completed "Claim 
              for Progress Payment", form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111.  The following 
              details must be included:

              (i)    expenditures in accordance with the Basis of Payment 
                     for the work for the preceding month;

              (ii)   deductions for holdback, if applicable;

              (iii)  the totals of all previous claims against the Contract;

              (iv)   the extension of the totals to date and the 
                     calculation of the amount due; and

              (v)    goods and services tax.

                     A sample of form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111 is attached as Annex 
                     "____." 

       (b)    the Claim for Progress Payment is accompanied by the required 
              copies of monthly progress reports, prepared in accordance 
              with the clause entitled Monthly Progress Reports, detailed 
              in this Contract;

       (c)    the progress report is accepted by the Technical Authority 
              and the Contracting Authority;

       (d)    the Claim for Progress Payment is approved;

       (e)    the following documentation, in two (2) copies, accompanies 
              the progress claim:

              (i)    a listing of all expenses in support of the claim; 
              (ii)   the invoice for each non-consumable item valued at $1,000 
                     or more;

              (iii)  a statement regarding all travel and living costs 
                     indicating who, where, when, duration and purpose of 
                     travel; and

              (iv)   computer centre chargeout sheets to support computer 
                     charges.

2.     The Contractor shall prepare and certify an original and four (4) 
       copies of its claim on form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111. The claim will be 
       forwarded to the Contracting Authority who will certify the claim 
       and forward it to the Technical Authority for certification and 
       payment.

3.     The balance owing will be paid to the Contractor, subject to:

       (a)    completion and acceptance of the Work;

       (b)    the submission of all deliverable items to the Technical 
              Authority; and

       (c)    the approval of the final claim by the Technical Authority 
              and by the Contracting Authority.

4.     Progress payments shall be regarded as interim payments only and 
       Canada shall have the right to conduct interim cost/time 
       verifications or audits and to make adjustments from time to time 
       during the performance of the Work. Any overpayment resulting from 
       such progress payments or otherwise shall be refunded promptly to 
       Canada.

5.     Payment by Canada to the Contractor for the Work shall be made:

       (a)    in the case of a progress payment other than the final 
              payment, within thirty (30) days following the date of 
              receipt of a duly completed "Claim for Progress Payment", 
              form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111;

       (b)    in the case of a final payment, within thirty (30) days 
              following the date of receipt of a duly completed final "
              Claim for Progress Payment", form PWGSC-TPSGC 1111, or within 
              thirty (30) days following the date on which work is 
              completed, whichever date is the later;

       (c)    if Canada has any objection to the form of the progress claim, 
              within fifteen (15) days of its receipt, Canada shall notify 
              the Contractor of the nature of the objection.  "Form of the 
              claim" means a claim which contains or is accompanied by such 
              substantiating documentation as Canada requires.  Failure by 
              Canada to act within fifteen (15) days will only result in 
              the date specified in paragraphs 5 (a) and (b) of the clause 
              to apply for the sole purpose of calculating interest on 
              overdue accounts. 


</pre>