<pre><strong>Hazardous Materiel:</strong>

1.     The nature, quantity and United Nations number of any hazardous 
       materiel is to be included with each hazardous item, in accordance 
       with the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code and the latest 
       International Air Transport Association regulations.

2.     Non-compliance with this requirement by the supplier will render him 
       liable for any punitive action that may be taken by regulating 
       authorities.

3.     Documents are to be distributed as follows:

       (a)    To the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), at 
              the address to which invoices are to be forwarded:

              (1)    original and four (4) copies of the commercial invoice 
                     made out to the Canadian International Development 
                     Agency;

              The Contractor shall include the following statement on all 
invoices:

                     "We certify that the prices on this invoice exclude 
                     the Goods and Services Tax, the Harmonized Sales Tax, 
                     sales tax, refundable customs duty and excise tax paid 
                     on goods or on parts and components incorporated in 
                     the goods."

              (2)    five (5) copies of the packing list;

              (3)    one (1) copy of the inspection report, if inspection 
                     required by the Contract;

              (4)    delivery report.

       (b)    To the destinee:

              (1)    two (2) copies of non-negotiable bills of lading;
              (2)    two (2) copies of the commercial invoice;
              (3)    two (2) copies of the packing list.
 
       (c)    To the Department of Public Works and Government Services 
              Contracting Authority:

              One (1) copy of the commercial invoice.

       <strong>Payment</strong>:      Against commercial invoices and documentation as 
                     stated above by CIDA.  DELIVERY REPORT is the CRITICAL 
                     document for payment.  It replaces B/L original used 
                     for other terms, such C. &amp; F. or C.I.F. 


</pre>