<pre><strong>9601-3 00     (16/02/98)    Systems Integration</strong>


Public Works and Government Services Canada

01     Interpretation
02     Total System Responsibility
03     System Testing and Acceptance
04     Government Property
05     System Warranty Period
06     System Lease Obligations




<strong>9601-3 01     (31/03/95)    Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires,

       "<strong>General Conditions</strong>" means General Conditions - Long Form, DSS-MAS 
       9601, or General Conditions - Medium Form, DSS-MAS 9601-10, 
       whichever forms part of the Contract;

       "<strong>Ready for Use</strong>" in relation to the System, means that the System has 
       been delivered, integrated, installed and connected, has 
       successfully passed the Contractor's normal diagnostic tests and 
       inspection by the Inspection Authority and is ready for 
       Availability-level Testing of the Hardware and for all additional 
       acceptance testing required under the Contract;

       "<strong>System</strong>" means an integrated combination of Hardware, Licensed 
       Software, Custom Software, if any, and Government Property, if any, 
       all as described in the Contract as forming the System.  If the 
       Contract involves the acquisition by  Canada of more than one system, 
       then "System", as used in the Contract, means all such systems.

2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these Supplemental General Conditions shall have the meanings 
       assigned to them in the General Conditions.

3.     Words and expressions defined in any other set of Supplemental 
       General Conditions forming part of the Contract and used in these 
       Supplemental General Conditions shall have the meanings assigned to 
       them in those Supplemental General Conditions.

4.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these Supplemental General Conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these Supplemental General Conditions shall prevail.

5.     In the event of any inconsistency between these Supplemental General 
       Conditions and any other set of Supplemental General Conditions 
       forming part of the Contract, the applicable provisions of these 
       Supplemental General Conditions shall prevail.

6.     The sections of the General Conditions entitled "Title" and "
       Warranty" do not apply to the System.  The title and warranty 
       provisions contained in the Supplemental General Conditions apply in 
       place of those sections.

7.     References in these Supplemental General Conditions to other sets of 
       Supplemental General Conditions, or to sections therein, or the use 
       in these Supplemental General Conditions of words or expressions 
       defined in other sets of Supplemental General Conditions, shall not 
       be interpreted  as having the effect of incorporating those other 
       sets of Supplemental General Conditions, or any sections thereof, 
       into the Contract.  Other sets of Supplemental General Conditions 
       shall not form part of the Contract unless they are incorporated 
       into the Contract by provisions contained elsewhere in the Contract.


<strong>9601-3 02     (31/03/95)    Total System Responsibility</strong>

1.     Except for Government Property specifically provided for in the 
       Contract, the Contractor shall be fully responsible for the supply 
       of the System as a whole.

2.     If the Contractor is to install the System under the Contract, the 
       Contractor shall:

       (a)    integrate and make compatible all the System components to 
              permit the System and all its components to meet the 
              Specifications;

       (b)    supply and install all interfaces and component modifications 
              necessary to meet the requirement specified in paragraph a; 
              and

       (c)    make the System Ready for Use.

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between Specifications, the 
       Parties agree that the specified performance criteria for the System 
       shall prevail over the specified performance criteria for any 
       subsystem within the System, and, similarly, for lower-tier 
       subsystems.


<strong>9601-3 03     (01/12/92)    System Testing and Acceptance</strong>

1.     If Canada intends to subject the Hardware components of the System 
       to Availability-level Testing, then, for the purposes of section 10 
       (Acceptance Tests) of Supplemental General Conditions, DSS-MAS 9601-
       4 (Licensed Software) and section 13 (Acceptance Tests) of 
       Supplemental General Conditions, DSS-MAS 9601-2 (Software 
       Development/ Modification Services), the acceptance-testing period 
       for the Licensed Software and any Custom Software components of the 
       System shall be the period specified in the Contract for 
       Availability-Level Testing of the Hardware components of the System.

2.     Section 07 (Acceptance) of Supplemental General Conditions DSS-MAS 
       9601-1 (Hardware Purchase or Lease) shall apply to the System as a 
       whole and, to that end, that section is amended by deleting the word 
       "Hardware" wherever it appears in that section, except where it 
       appears in paragraph 7(1)(c), and substituting therefor the word "
       System".

3.     Section 10 (Acceptance Tests) of Supplemental General Conditions, 
       DSS-MAS 9601-4 (Licensed Software) is amended by deleting subsection 
       2 of that section in its entirety.


<strong>9601-3 04     (31/03/95)    Government Property</strong>

1.     Where the Contractor is to incorporate Government Property into the 
       System, the Contractor shall be responsible for the integration of 
       the Government Property into the System and for the performance of 
       the System as a whole, but shall not be liable under the 
       acceptance-testing provisions of the Contract or under subsection (2) 
       for any failure of the System to meet any performance or other 
       requirements of the Specifications caused directly by a defect in 
       any Government Property supplied to the Contractor by or on behalf 
       of Canada, or by a failure of any such Government Property to meet 
       its specifications.

2.     During the warranty period referred to in section 05 (System 
       Warranty Period), the Contractor, at the request of Canada to do so, 
       shall, as soon as possible, correct any failure of the System to 
       conform to the Specifications that is caused by improper integration 
       into the System of any Government Property supplied to the 
       Contractor by or on behalf of Canada.  The foregoing provision shall 
       survive inspection and acceptance of the Work by or on behalf of 
       Canada and does not limit any of the Contractor's other warranty 
       obligations under the Contract.


<strong>9601-3 05     (01/12/92)    System Warranty Period</strong>

Notwithstanding section 13 (Warranty) of Supplemental General Conditions 
DSS-MAS 9601-4 (Licensed Software) and section 14 (Warranty) of 
Supplemental General Conditions, DSS-MAS 9601-2 (Software Development/
Modification Services), the warranty period with respect to the Licensed 
Software and any Custom Software components of the System shall be the 
12-month period described in subsection 1 of section 08 (Warranty) of 
Supplemental General Conditions, DSS-MAS 9601-1 (Hardware Purchase or Lease).


<strong>9601-3 06     (01/12/92)    System Lease Obligations</strong>

If the Hardware components of the System are leased by Canada under the 
Contract, then sections 12 (Lease Period), 13 (Termination for Convenience), 
14 (Risk of Loss) and 19 (Right to Withhold Lease Payments) of Supplemental 
General Conditions DSS-MAS 9601-1 (Hardware Purchase or Lease) shall also 
apply to the Licensed Software and any Custom Software components of the 
System, and to that end, those sections are amended by deleting the word "
Hardware", wherever it appears in those sections, and substituting therefor 
the word "System".

</pre>