<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Use the following instructions when applicable in all CCC fixed price contracts 
for stores.  

</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1. Progress Payments        

       - Claims for progress payments are to be submitted on the Claim for 
       Progress Payment forms, DSS-MAS 1111, for 'Fixed Price Type' 
       contracts. 

       - One (1) original and three (3) duly executed copies are to be 
       forwarded to the following Contracting Officer (name and address) _____.

       - One (1) copy is to be forwarded to:         

              Canadian Commercial Corporation     
              Financial Operations, 11th Floor,        
              50 O'Connor Street   
              Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0S6       

       Telephone No. (613) 995-1327       

       - If the amount of the progress claim exceeds $100K, it is advisable 
       to submit the claim via courier to the addresses indicated above. 
       Payment by the Corporation for progress claims shall be made within: 

              a) Thirty (30) days following the date on which a valid claim 
              for progress payment and substantiating documentation are 
              received, by CCC/DSS Contracting Officer according to the 
              terms of the Contract. 

              b) If the Corporation has any objection to the contents of 
              the claim for progress payment or the substantiating 
              documentation, within five (5) working days of its receipt, 
              the DSS/CCC Contracting Officer shall notify the Contractor 
              of the nature of the objection.   

2. Deliveries:  Commodity      

       - Prior to shipment, the Contractor shall complete form DD 250, and 
       distribute as follows:         

              Four (4) copies to accompany shipment      
              Two  (2) copies via mail to consignee        
              One  (1) copy to 'DCMAO', P.O. Box 3416, Station D, 365 
              Laurier Ave., 14th floor Journal Tower South, Ottawa, Ontario 
              K1P 6L4
              One  (1) copy to U.S. Contracting Officer    
              Two  (2) copies are to accompany the Contractor's commercial 
              invoices.       

       If the Contractor is unfamiliar with the procedures related to this 
       form, contact the Department of National Defence, Quality Assurance 
       Representative or the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency, Defence 
       Contracts Management Area Operations (DCMAO) Ottawa, for assistance.  
       - Immediately upon shipment, the Contractor shall generate, for each 
       shipment, a commercial invoice reflecting all information in block 
       numbers 1, 2, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of form DD 250.   

       - The invoice must also reflect CCC File Number and Supplier Code.   

       - The original invoice and three (3) copies must be accompanied by 
       documents as applicable below and forwarded to:        

       Canadian Commercial Corporation,        
       Financial Operations, Supplier Accounts Unit 
       11th Floor, 50 O'Connor Street     
       Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0S6 

FOB ORIGIN       

       - Specific authority must be granted by the U.S. DCMAO/Procurement 
       Agency to ship commercial, prepay and add the freight charges as a 
       separate item on the invoice.    

       - The invoice reflecting freight charges in the fund type (currency) 
       of the contract must be supported by receipted waybill as well as a 
       copy of DCMAO form 359 authorizing commercial Bills of Lading.    

       - All other shipments must utilize a Government Bill of Lading.  

       - If shipment is made by U.S. Government Bill of Lading, no other 
       shipping documents are required.        

FOB ORIGIN - Transportation Prepaid to Destination

       - All invoices must be supported by two (2) copies of the commercial 
       Bill of Lading.       

FOB - DESTINATION         

       - All invoices must be supported by two (2) copies of evidence of 
       shipment (commercial Bill of Lading.)      

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE AT ORIGIN        

       - Ensure that block 21A of form DD 250 is completed and the DD 250 
       accompanies the invoice.     

ACCEPTANCE AT DESTINATION 

In the event that acceptance of the supplies is to be accomplished at 
destination, the invoices will not be paid pending receipt by CCC of 
evidence of such acceptance, or receipt of payment from the customer. The 
discount terms, if quoted in the Contract, will be calculated from the date 
of receipt of evidence of acceptance or payment as cited above. 

Acceptance at Destination - Inspection at Origin       

       - Ensure that block 21A of form DD 250 is authorized for inspection 
       only. 

       - Ensure that 1 of the 4 copies of the DD 250 that accompany the 
       shipment is annotated "Payment Copy" in block 23; forward copy to 
       block 12 address to support payment (ref. DFARS APPX F. PAGE F-9). 

       - Request proof of delivery from the carrier and immediately upon 
       receipt forward same to CCC, Financial Operations, referencing CCC 
       contract number and applicable shipment number as reflected in block 
       2 of form DD 250.        

INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE AT DESTINATION        

       - Ensure that form DD 250 accompanies the shipment.      

       - Ensure that the copies of DD 250 that accompany your shipment and 
       are mailed to the consignee are submitted under covering letter 
       clearly stating that acceptance of these goods has yet to be 
       accomplished and that prompt acceptance (by completing block 21B on 
       the DD 250 and returning to the Contractor's company) is requested.   
       - Request proof of delivery (acknowledgement on the shipping 
       documents by receiving person) from the carrier and immediately upon 
       receipt forward same to CCC, Financial Operations, referencing CCC 
       contract number and applicable shipment number as reflected in block 
       2 of form DD 250. 

METHOD OF PAYMENT (Fixed Price)       

1. Payment by CCC for the Work shall be made within:     

       (a) Thirty (30) days following the date on which an invoice and 
       substantiating documentation are received by CCC according to the 
       terms of the Contract.        

       (b) If CCC has any objection to the form of the invoice or the 
       substantiating documentation, within fifteen (15) days of its 
       receipt, CCC shall notify the Contractor of the nature of the 
       objection. "Form of the Invoice" means an invoice which contains or 
       is accompanied by such substantiating documentation as the 
       Corporation requires.        

       (c) For Acceptance at Destination, payment will be made:     
 
              1) Within fifteen (15) calendar days from date of receipt of 
              evidence of acceptance (executed form DD 250, TWX letter, etc., 
              from Consignee).      

              2) Within five (5) working days from date of receipt of 
              payment from customer agency. 

              3) If evidence of acceptance required by c) 1) is not 
   provided within sixty (60) days from date of shipment, CCC shall make 
   every effort to obtain acceptance from the receiving/ buying activity.   
</pre>