<pre>A. Instructions

1.  To submit your offer, return signed original of this form, duly 
completed. using the enclosed envelope.  Ensure that your firm's name, SSC 
file number, solicitation closing date and time appear in window of return 
envelope.  Do not use this envelope for enquiries. Telegraphic offers will 
also be considered provided they contain SSC file number, solicitation 
closing time and date and all requested pricing details and are 
subsequently confirmed by a duly completed and signed copy of this form.

2.  Offers may be accepted in whole or in part and may be accepted on a 
lowest aggregate price basis.  The lowest or any offer will not necessarily 
be accepted.  In case of error in the extension of prices, the unit price 
will govern.  Offers will remain open for acceptance for a period of not 
less than sixty (60) days from closing date of this solicitation, unless 
otherwise indicated herein by SSC.

3.  All late offers will be returned unopened.  Offers which were mailed at 
least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the closing time and date (96 hours 
outside Canada) and are delayed in the mail, will be considered, provided 
evidence of timely mailing is supported by certification of registered mail, 
special delivery or by postage cancellation. (Note: Postage meter imprints 
are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing.)

B. Conditions

1.   a)  Excluding the exceptions noted below, the contractor shall not 
invoice
       or collect any ad valorem sales tax levied by the province in which 
       the goods or taxable services are delivered to federal government 
       departments and agencies under authority of the following provincial 
       sales tax licences:

                     Newfoundland          32243-0-09      
                     Quebec                10-0813-5602-0001
                     Prince Edward Island  OP-10000-250    
                     Ontario               11708174G
                     Nova Scotia           U84-00-03172-3  
                     Manitoba              390516-O
                     New-Brunswick         P87-60-01648    
                     British Columbia      005521

       b)  Exceptions

              1)  petroleum products subject to provincial gasoline and 
              motive fuel taxes;

              2)  tobacco products;

              3)  prepared meals and transient living accommodation;

              4)  broadcast advertising services (Quebec/Newfoundland) and 
              all other advertising in Newfoundland;

              5)  amusement and/or entertainment taxes.

       c)   In Alberta and Saskatchewan, provincial retail sales taxes do 
       not apply to goods or taxable services delivered to the federal 
       government under this contract.

       d)   The contractor is not relieved of any obligation to pay 
       provincial sales taxes on goods or taxable services used or consumed 
       in the performance of this contract, including materials 
       incorporated in real property.

2.   Material will be new production of current manufacture conforming to 
the current issue of the specifications, drawings or part numbers as 
applicable, unless otherwise indicated herein.

3.   The contractor shall comply with all labour and health conditions 
applicable to the work.

4.   If transportation charges are payable by Her Majesty under the terms 
of this contract, shipments are to be made by the most direct and 
economical means consistent with normal shipping practice, unless otherwise 
directed.  They are to be shown as a separate item on the invoice.

5.   Valuation: The federal government's policy of underwriting its own 
risks precludes payment of any excess valuation and/or transportation 
charges beyond the specified FOB point (the point at which title of goods 
passed to the federal government).  Goods will be covered to the carrier's 
maximum liability and value will be declared only when additional costs 
will not be incurred.

6.   Goods shipped into Canada from another country are to be consigned to 
destination, IN BOND, unless otherwise directed.

7.   The transportation bill of lading must accompany the original invoice, 
except for "collect" shipments, in which event it shall accompany the 
shipment; in addition, a packing slip must accompany each shipment, showing 
item, quantity, part or reference numbers, description of supplies and 
contract reference numbers.  If the supplies have been inspected at the 
contractor's plant, the signed inspection voucher must be attached to the 
packing slip normally enclosed in the packing note envelope.

8.   Invoices must be submitted in the name of the contractor and are not 
to be submitted prior to the shipment of supplies.  They must show the name 
and address of the consignee, together with date, method of shipment, terms 
of payment, the case numbers if applicable, item, quantity, part or 
reference numbers, description of supplies as shown in this contract and 
contract number, requisition number and financial code(s).  Separate 
invoices must be submitted for each shipment and must apply to one contract 
only.  Each invoice must indicate whether it covers partial or final 
shipment.

9.   The goods/services are subject to inspection and acceptance by 
consignee at destination, unless otherwise specified. 


</pre>