<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Use the following clause in contracts when surplus U.S. Government property is 
to be disposed of in Canada.  Surplus property to be returned to the United 
States will be handled in accordance with instructions provided by DCMAO/Ottawa. 
 

</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>U.S. Government property in excess of the Contractor's requirement under 
this Contract, which is not being returned to the United States, may be 
disposed of in Canada by CCC by sale to the Government of Canada, or sold 
or disposed of through the Crown Assets Distribution Centre (CADC) of the 
Department of Supply and Services or, in special cases directed to a buyer. 

Disposal of surplus goods or equipment will be accomplished in the 
following manner: 

       (a) Upon completion of this Contract, or at such earlier date as may 
       be fixed by CCC, the Contractor shall prepare and submit to the 
       Contracting Officer ten (10) copies of an inventory schedule of all 
       surplus U.S. Government property at its plant, classified as new 
       serviceable, used serviceable or repairable, used unserviceable or 
       scrap, and the estimated cost of acquisition.

       (b) Copies of the inventory schedule will be submitted to CCC for 
       screening by the U.S. Government and subsequent disposal 
       instructions.  Items to be returned to the United States will be 
       packaged and packed for shipment in accordance with instructions 
       issued by CCC.

       (c) After the property has been accepted for sale by Surplus Crown 
       Assets and subject to the provisions of subparagraph (b) above, the 
       reports of excess shall not be modified, cancelled or withdrawn 
       except by mutual consent of Surplus Crown Assets or CCC.     

DISPOSAL OF SCRAP:  Surplus property certified as scrap by the inspector 
will be disposed of in accordance with the following procedure:

       (a) Six (6) copies of the certified list will be forwarded to the 
       Contracting Officer of CCC for screening by the Department of 
       National Revenue, who may conduct a physical check in order that a 
       customs appraisal can be made and entry accepted from the purchaser 
       in accordance with the appropriate tariff item. (Steel scrap is free 
       of duty but subject to sales tax and when sold to a licensed 
       manufacturer or wholesaler the entry may be accepted free of tax by 
       the purchaser quoting thereon his license number).

       (b) After appraisal by National Revenue, a copy of the list will be 
       forwarded to the Contractor by the Contracting Officer and the 
       Contractor shall obtain at least three (3) bids (if applicable). The 
       highest bid will be accepted.

       (c) The Contractor will issue a cheque for the proceeds of the sale, 
   made payable to the Canadian Commercial Corporation and forward it to 
   the Comptroller, CCC.  The transmittal letter should include adequate 
   information to assist CCC in identifying the disposal.    
</pre>