<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Use the following clause in bid solicitation documents in those situations where 
either exchange rate fluctuations or foreign currency considerations are 
expected to be an issue.  Examples are:  the likelihood of a significant foreign 
currency component; bids from foreign suppliers received in a foreign currency; 
and, volatility in currency markets might be a serious disincentive to 
competition.  This clause should not be used in cost reimbursable contracts.
</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     Unless otherwise specified, bids shall be sought in Canadian 
       currency.

2.     The bidder may request the Crown to assume the risk for exchange 
       rate fluctuation.  This option must be specifically requested at 
       time of bidding.

3.     The foreign currency component is defined as the element of the 
       price which will be directly affected by exchange rate fluctuations.  
       It could include the net price FOB foreign manufacturer's plant, 
       costs associated with applicable duty, excise tax and goods and 
       services tax, entry fees, transportation costs or delivery charges 
       payable in a foreign currency and any other charges associated with 
       being the importer of record if they originated from and are 
       required to be paid in a foreign currency.  

4.     The value in foreign funds of the foreign currency component of the 
       bid or negotiated price SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO THE BID RESPONSE, AND 
       IN ANY EVENT, MUST BE IDENTIFIED PRIOR TO CONTRACT AWARD.  Form 
       DSS-MAS 9411 may be used for this purpose.  If milestone payments 
       are proposed, it is recommended that form DSS-MAS 9411 shows or 
       reflects the foreign currency component associated with each 
       milestone event. 

5.     All bids are evaluated in Canadian currency.  Therefore, for 
       evaluation purposes, the rate quoted by the Bank of Canada as being 
       in effect on date of bid closing, or such other date as may be 
       specified in the bid solicitation, shall be applied as the initial 
       conversion factor for the specified currency.  (Column 3 of DSS-MAS 
       9411 shall be completed by the DSS contracting authority).

6.     Rates proposed by bidders will not be accepted for the  purposes of 
       this exchange rate adjustment provision.
   
7.     If there are two identical bids, and provided that the bid selected 
       would still be considered the most advantageous to the Crown,  
       preference will be given to the bidder who assumes all or part of 
       the exchange rate adjustment risk, over a bidder who does not assume 
       any of this risk.  Further, preference will be given to the bidder 
       who assumes all of the exchange rate adjustment risk, over a bidder 
       who assumes only part of this risk.

8.     The Crown shall pay exchange rate adjustment amounts in Canadian 
       currency using the prevailing rate on the date of payment by the 
       government or in accordance with the provisions, as applicable, of:  
       Clause C3015C - Payment on delivery; Clause C3020C - Milestone 
       Payments; Clause C3025C - Actual Costs Incurred; or Clause C3030C - 
       Progress Payments for Costs Incurred. 

</pre>