<pre>REQUIREMENT: FOR THE RENTAL AND LAUNDRY OF GARMENTS AND TOWELS AS LISTED ON 
APPENDIX "A".

Customer departments will provide the successful Bidder with a list of 
names of people requiring garments, along with the quantity of towels 
required.

The supplier will take all the necessary measurements to ensure that there 
is a clean garment available each week (or as arranged) for each person on 
the list, and buttons are to be non-metallic when requested.

The charges will be computed as follows: {Quantity of items arranged for}  
x {item price} = {total cost per week (or period arranged for)}.

These will be rental prices and will be charged whether the items are 
laundered or not.

In case of loss by theft from customer's premises or where major damage is 
caused by fire or otherwise, the supplier may recover the cost appearing in 
the final column of Appendix "A".

Exchanges to be arranged on a weekly basis, unless indicated otherwise by 
customer departments.

Time of pick-up and exchange and other delivery conditions to be stipulated 
by customer department on the Call-up against a Standing Offer, form 
DSS-MAS 942.

ITEMS 2 AND 3 - HAND TOWELS: Laundering:  Supplier shall launder towels by 
the usual commercial or any patented process to ensure removal of dirt, 
grime, dust, grease, paint or other industrial types of soil.

FITTING OF GARMENTS:  Each employee is to be outfitted with three garments.  
Supplier shall visit the department, take measurements and determine the 
size of garments required for each employee.

IDENTIFICATION:  Each garment shall be marked or labelled by the supplier 
to identify the employee for whom it has been fitted. Supplier may label or 
mark the garment to show ownership.

SPECIFICATIONS:  Garments should be equal in quality and style to those now 
in service.

ACCOUNTING:  The supplier's delivery agent shall accept the customer's 
count of soiled garments, towels and sheets, which he may check, and sign a 
delivery slip to be kept by the customer.  The supplier's delivery slips 
for cleaned items will be signed by the customer.

REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT:  Buttons are to be replaced and all garments in 
reasonable condition of wear shall be repaired and neatly patched by the 
supplier.  Garments showing unreasonable wear and non-durable garments are 
to be replaced by the supplier without charge to the customer.  Rejected 
clothing to be returned and corrected at supplier's own full expense.

CLEANING:  Supplier shall clean garments, towels and sheets by the usual 
commercial or any patented process to remove dirt, grime, dust, grease or 
other usual industrial type of soil likely to be encountered in a 
laboratory, workshop or ore dressing mill.  Garments and sheets must be 
neatly pressed and folded.

SERVICE:  Supplier must ensure uninterrupted service.  Errors or omissions 
   shall be reported to the supplier, who shall rectify the errors, correct 
   the omissions, etc., within three (3) days.  Sampling and interpretation 
   shall be at the discretion of the customer whose decision, in case of 
   difference of interpretation, shall be final. 
</pre>