<pre>1.     The Contractor represents and warrants that the certification of 
       compliance with the definition of an Aboriginal business set out in <em>
       Requirements for the Set-Aside Program for Aboriginal Business</em> and 
       submitted with its bid is and remains accurate and complete. The 
       Contractor acknowledges that the Minister has relied upon such 
       representation and warranty to enter into this Contract. Such 
       representation and warranty may be verified in such manner as the 
       Minister may reasonably require.

2.     The Contractor acknowledges that in the event of a breach of this 
       covenant, the Minister shall have the right to treat the Contract as 
       being in default in accordance with the default provisions of the 
       Contract.

3.     The Contractor shall keep proper records and documentation relating 
       to the accuracy of the certification provided to Canada. The 
       Contractor shall not, without the prior written consent of the 
       Minister, dispose of any such records or documentation supporting 
       the accuracy of the certification until the expiration of six (6) 
       years after final payment of this Contract, or until settlement of 
       all outstanding claims and disputes, resulting from a dispute under 
       this contract, whichever is later. All such records and 
       documentation shall at all times during the aforementioned retention 
       period be open to audit, inspection and examination by the 
       authorized representatives of the Minister, who may make copies and 
       take extracts thereof. The Contractor shall provide all facilities  
       for such audits, inspections and examinations, and shall furnish all 
       such information as the representatives of the Minister may from 
       time to time require with respect to such records and documentation.

4.     Nothing in this clause shall be interpreted as limiting the rights 
       and remedies which Canada or the Minister may otherwise have in 
       relation to or pursuant to this Contract.

</pre>