<pre><strong>9072A  01     (06/91)       Interpretation</strong>

(1) In the Contract:  

       (a) "acceptance" means the Work has been completed in accordance 
       with the Contract, and that the equipment has successfully passed 
       inspection, equipment check, any acceptance tests specified in the 
       Contract and has achieved the specified availability level;

       (b) "data processing component" is synonymous with "component" and 
       means a part or sub-assembly which is an integral part of a data 
       processing device and which is capable of operating in the manner 
       described in the specifications, or where the specifications do not 
       describe the manner in which the component is to operate, is capable 
       of operating in the manner described in the Contractor's 
       specification in effect on the Contract date;

       (c) "data processing device" is synonymous with "device" and means 
       an item of hardware which is capable of performing a function or 
       activity, which may stand alone or be housed in common with, or be 
       connected to, other parts of a data processing system, and which is 
       capable of operating in the manner described in the specifications, 
       or where specifications do not describe the manner in which the 
       component is to operate, is capable of operating in the manner 
       described in the Contractor's specifications in effect on the 
       Contract date;

       (d) "data processing system" is synonymous with "system" and means a 
       series of interconnected devices together with computer programs, 
       all as listed in the Contract as forming the system and which, 
       unless otherwise specified in the Contract, shall be furnished by 
       the Contractor and capable of processing data by accepting data, 
       performing prescribed operations on the data and supplying the 
       results, all as specified in the Contract;

       (e) "documentation" means visually recorded information relating to 
       the equipment and to the programs referred to in the Contract;

       (f) "downtime" means:   

              (i)  in the case of a system, the hours or part thereof 
              during which the system is not available for use due to a 
              cause within the system, or

              (ii) in the case of a device, the hours or part thereof 
              during which the device is not available for use due to a 
              malfunction in the device;
 
       and downtime commences when the Minister signifies to the Contractor 
       that the system or device is not available for use and ceases when 
       the Contractor signifies to the Minister that the cause or 
       malfunction has been corrected and the system or device is available 
       for use;

       (g) "equipment" is an all inclusive term which refers to individual 
       devices or components, or to the system specified in the contract 
       and replaces the definition of equipment specified in paragraph 1.(1) 
       (g) of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or DSS-MAS 1026A;

       (h) "equipment check" means that the Contractor has certified that 
       the devices and any interconnections have passed his normal 
       diagnostic tests and are in operating condition;

       (i) "medium" means decks of punched cards, magnetic or other tapes, 
       magnetic disk, or other material or configurations thereof on which 
       data or computer programs in machine-readable form are recorded;

       (j) "operational use hours" means:   

              (i)  in the case of a system, the hours or part thereof 
              during which the system is processing data, or   

              (ii) in the case of a device, the hours or part thereof 
              during which the device is performing its function or 
              activity;

       (k) "ready for use" means that, and occurs on the date that, the 
       equipment has been delivered, installed, connected, successfully 
       passed inspection, equipment check, and any acceptance tests 
       specified in the Contract and is ready for Government availability 
       level testing. 

<strong>9072A  02     (06/91)       Conduct of the Work</strong>

This section replaces section 4 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or 
DSS-MAS 1026A.  

(1) The Contractor shall:  

       (a) carry out the work diligently so that responsible progress is 
       made in performing the Contract and provide effective supervision 
       and inspection thereof;

       (b) ensure that the Work is of good quality and in full conformity 
       with the Contract; and

       (c) apply such quality assurance tests, inspections, controls and 
       other tests as he normally applies in similar work.   
(2) The Contractor acknowledges that the Minister wishes to maintain 
maximum flexibility in acquiring equipment, data processing supplies, 
programs and services, and the Contractor agrees not to include any feature 
in the Work, the sole purpose of which is to prevent the Minister from 
contracting through competition.  

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4 of these Supplemental 
General Conditions, the Minister may observe and review the conduct of the 
Work at all reasonable times. 

<strong>9072A  03     (06/91)       Documentation and Programs</strong>

(1) The Contractor shall furnish to Her Majesty, as a minimum, the same 
documentation as it provides to other purchasers of similar work, as and 
when required by the Minister and shall include all amendments, revisions 
and adjustments to the date of acceptance.  

(2) Notwithstanding subsection 3(1) of these Supplemental General 
Conditions, all documentation shall contain enough details to use, maintain, 
test, check and modify the computer programs and to operate the equipment.  

(3) All computer programs and program amendments (hereinafter called "
release" or "releases") shall be supplied on the Contractor's normal medium.  

(4) The Contractor shall furnish to Her Majesty the latest release of all 
computer programs specified in the Contract up to the date of acceptance.  
However, any release issued subsequent to the date of the Contractor's 
offer, or after the completion of any preaward benchmark tests, whichever 
is later, will be installed in the system pursuant to section 19 of General 
Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or DSS-MAS 1026A if mutually agreed between 
the parties.  

(5) After acceptance, the Contractor shall offer to furnish and install all 
computer programs and releases under terms and conditions no less 
favourable to Her Majesty than those the Contractor normally offers to 
purchasers of similar work. 

(6) In the event of termination or nonacceptance of the Work, the Minister 
shall, upon request of the Contractor, return or certify the destruction of 
documentation, computer programs or releases, title to which does not vest 
in Her Majesty. 

<strong>9072A  04     (06/91)       Inspection</strong>

This section replaces section 6 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or 
DSS-MAS 1026A.  

(1) The Minister shall have such access to the Work for inspection purposes 
and such rights of inspection as are specified in the Contract.  The 
Contractor shall give notice to the Minister when the Work is ready for 
inspection.  Upon the giving of the notice, the Minister shall promptly 
inspect the Work mentioned in the notice.  No in-plant inspection by the 
Government will be required of the manufacturing process for commercially 
available products as set out in the Contract.  

(2) Where the Minister inspects any work at any time prior to acceptance 
and the Work is not in accordance with the requirements of the Contract, 
the Minister may give notice to the Contractor that the Work is rejected, 
and, upon the giving of the notice, the Contractor shall promptly repair or 
replace the Work at his expense.  

(3) All repaired or replaced work is subject to further inspection by the 
Minister and subject to the provisions of section 4 of these Supplemental 
General Conditions.  

(4) If the Work is not in accordance with the requirements of the Contract, 
and the Minister has given notice pursuant to subsection 4(2) of these 
Supplemental General Conditions and the Contractor fails to promptly repair 
or replace the work, the Minister may terminate the Contract pursuant to 
section 21 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or DSS-MAS 1026A.  

(5) The Contractor may, within ten (10) working days of the giving of 
notice by the Minister, notify the Minister of any objection to the 
Minister's rejection of the Work, failing which, the Contractor shall be 
deemed to have accepted the Minister's rejection. 

(6) Inspection by the Minister shall not relieve the Contractor from its 
obligation to conform fully with the requirements of the Contract. 

<strong>9072A  05     (06/91)       Availability Level</strong>

(1) At any time prior to the ready-for-use date, the Minister may, with the 
Contractor's consent, make operational use of the equipment without 
prejudice to any other rights under the Contract. 

(2) When the equipment is ready for use, the Contractor shall promptly give 
notice to the Minister. Upon the giving of the notice, or promptly 
following the ready-for-use date specified in the Contract, whichever is 
later, the Minister may subject the equipment to availability level testing.  
The Minister shall have access to the equipment and shall have the right to 
make unrestricted operational use of it without prejudice to any other 
rights under the Contract provided, however, the Contractor shall, at all 
times prior to acceptance, have a prior right of access to the equipment 
and a prior right to use the equipment in order to maintain the equipment 
and to fulfil the requirements of the Contract.   
(3) All systems or devices must achieve a minimum of ninety-five per cent 
(95%) availability level for thirty (30) consecutive calendar days. All 
operational use hours shall be included in determining the availability 
level. Availability level shall be calculated as follows:

                        operational use                          hours                          ____________________ 
x 100%                         operational use                         
hours + downtime  

The thirty (30)-day availability level must be achieved within one hundred 
and eighty (180) consecutive calendar days of the first full day after 
ready-for-use date.  

(4) All equipment shall be deemed to have achieved the availability level 
on the day of completion of any thirty (30) consecutive calendar day period 
during which an availability level as specified in subsection 5(3) of these 
Supplemental General Conditions is achieved. 

(5) If the equipment is available to Her Majesty for a minimum of one 
hundred (100) operational use hours during a period of thirty (30) 
consecutive days within the 180-day period referred to in subsection 5(3) 
of these Supplemental General Conditions and Her Majesty fails to make 
operational use of the equipment for at least such minimum hours, then the 
availability level shall be deemed to have been achieved.  

(6) If, due to a power failure or other events beyond the control of the 
party or parties conducting an availability level test, which event 
prevents the normal functioning of the equipment being tested, the test may, 
at the option of the party or parties conducting the test, be temporarily 
suspended.  The time limits referred to above shall in such cases be 
extended by the number of calendar days lost due to the suspension. 

<strong>9072A  06     (06/91)       Acceptance</strong>

This section replaces section 7 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or 
DSS-MAS 1026A.  

(1) The date of acceptance shall be evidenced by a notice from the Minister 
to the Contractor. 

(2) Acceptance of part of the Work shall not constitute acceptance of the 
whole of the Work.  

<strong>9072A  07     (06/91)       Title</strong>

This section replaces section 7 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or 
DSS-MAS 1026A.  
 
(1) Except as provided in subsection 7(2) of these Supplemental General 
Conditions, title to the Work furnished to Her Majesty, including computer 
program media, shall vest in Her Majesty upon acceptance.  

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsections 11(1) and 11(2) of these 
Supplemental General Conditions, title to computer programs and releases 
does not vest in Her Majesty, but unless otherwise stated in the Contract, 
Her Majesty may retain and use all computer programs and releases furnished 
under the Contract. 

<strong>9072A  08     (06/91)       Warranty</strong>

This section replaces section 8 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or 
DSS-MAS 1026A.  

(1) Notwithstanding prior acceptance of the Work, and without restricting 
any other term of the Contract or any condition, warranty or provision 
implied or imposed by law, the Contractor warrants that, for a period of 
one (1) year, commencing on the first day of the thirty (30) consecutive 
calendar-day period in which the availability level is achieved, equipment, 
including limited life components, shall be free of defects in materials 
and workmanship, and other defects which cause repeated abnormal failure or 
malfunction, and that computer programs shall operate as specified in the 
Contract, or if not specified, in accordance with the Contractor's 
specifications provided that if there is no availability level test the 
warranty period shall commence on the date of acceptance.  

(2) During the warranty period, the Minister shall promptly notify the 
Contractor of any claim under warranty. Upon receipt of the claim, the 
Contractor shall take prompt action, at no cost to Her Majesty, to correct 
the defect specified in the claim and warranted in subsection 8(1) of these 
Supplemental General Conditions.  The Contractor shall be allowed a 
reasonable period of time not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar 
days in which to correct a defect by repair or replacement, provided, 
however, that if the Contractor is unable to correct the defect within such 
period of time, the Contractor shall, on the written request of the 
Minister, unless otherwise specified in the Contract, provide alternate 
compatible equipment. All replaced equipment which is removed becomes the 
property of the Contractor. Any such replacement equipment shall be 
warranted for the balance of the original warranty period.  

(3) If the Contractor fails to perform its obligation under subsection 8(2) 
of these Supplemental General Conditions within the time allowed, the 
Minister may correct, or have corrected the said defective equipment at the 
Contractor's expense. 

(4) This warranty shall not apply to a defect which results from negligence 
of Her Majesty, failure of electric power or air conditioning or humidity 
control to perform in accordance with site preparation specifications, 
failure by Her Majesty to properly maintain the equipment, in accordance 
with the Contractor's furnished specification or an alteration to the 
equipment made by other than the Contractor or from the use by the 
Government of supplies or materials that do not conform to the Contractor's 
specifications.  The Contractor shall be provided reasonable access to the 
equipment in order to perform its obligations under this warranty. 

<strong>9072A  09     (06/91)       Disputes</strong>

(1) Pending resolution of any dispute, the Contractor shall, if directed by 
the Minister, continue with the Work.  

<strong>9072A  10     (06/91)       Site Preparation</strong>

(1) Where the Contract contains site specifications provided by the 
Contractor, which require the Crown to prepare a site for the Work, the 
Crown shall prepare the site at its own expense pursuant to the 
specifications prior to the date specified in the Contract for delivery of 
the Work.  The Contractor warrants that if the site is prepared and 
maintained in conformity with the site specifications, the resultant 
environment will permit the operation of the equipment in conformity with 
the specification and it will be maintainable.  

(2) The Minister shall give notice to the Contractor when the site is 
prepared.  The Contractor shall promptly inspect the site and shall advise 
the Minister of the dates of the inspection, any rejections, and the 
reasons therefor and the final inspection and acceptance specifications.  
Inspection by the Contractor shall not relieve the Minister from his 
obligations to fully conform with the requirements of the site 
specifications.  

(3) Any alterations or modifications in site preparation which are 
attributable to incomplete or erroneous specifications provided by the 
Contractor, which would involve additional expenses to the Government, 
shall be made at the expense of the Contractor. 

<strong>9072A  11     (06/91)       Inventions, Copyrights and Designs</strong>

This section replaces section 17 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A 
or DSS-MAS 1026A.  

(1) Her Majesty agrees to indemnify the Contractor for expenses that the 
Contractor sustains as a result of any claim or proceeding based upon the 
use, by the Contractor in performing the Contract, of any patented 
invention, copyright work or registered and industrial design:  

       (a) embodied in equipment furnished to the Contractor as government 
       issue; or  
 
       (b) resulting from the Contractor complying with production drawings 
       not prepared by the Contractor and supplied by the Minister, which 
       direct an alteration of or modification to the Work. 

(2) The Contractor agrees to indemnify Her Majesty against claims, actions 
and proceedings based upon the use of any invention claimed in a patent 
that is made in connection with the carrying out of the Contract and in 
respect to the use of or disposal by Her Majesty of articles or supplies 
furnished pursuant to the Contract.

(3) In the event that a public servant, and an employee, agent or 
representative of the Contractor together make an invention or produce 
anything that is proper subject matter for copyright protection in carrying 
out the Work, the invention and copyright shall vest in Her Majesty, but 
the Contractor shall have the royalty-free right to use and to permit 
subcontractors to use the invention and copyright.  

(4) Where the Contract requires the Contractor to develop equipment, 
programs or both, all designs, programs, technical information, inventions 
first conceived, developed, produced or actually reduced to practice by the 
Contractor in the performance of that part of the Work shall vest in Her 
Majesty.  The Contractor shall promptly disclose in writing these designs, 
programs and inventions to the Minister and, shall not, without the written 
consent of the Minister, divulge or use them other than in performing the 
Contract. 

<strong>9072A  12     (06/91)       Conditions Precedent to Payment</strong>

This section replaces section 10 of General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A 
or DSS-MAS 1026A.  

(1) Provided that the Contractor is not in default under section 21 of 
General Conditions DSS-MAS 1026-S100A or DSS-MAS 1026A, payments, as 
specified in the Contract, shall be made promptly to the Contractor when 
the following conditions are met:  

       (a) acceptance of the Work for which payment is being claimed has 
       occurred; and  

       (b) all invoices and other documents specified in the contract 
       relating to payment under the Contract are submitted to and 
       certified by the Minister; and

       (c) the Contractor, if required to do so, certifies that he has no 
       knowledge of any lien, attachment, charge, encumbrance or claim of a 
       similar nature affecting all the Work in respect of which payment is 
       being claimed.  

</pre>