<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     Price breakdown:

       Upon request, the price of all unscheduled work will be broken down 
       into individual specified activities with trades, person-hours, 
       material, subcontracts and services.

2.     Pro-rated prices:

       Hours and prices for unscheduled work shall be based on comparable 
       historical data applicable to similar work at the same facility, or 
       shall be determined by pro-rating the quoted Work costs in the 
       Contract when in similar areas of the vessel.

3.     Services:

       Ship services such as water, steam, electricity, etc., required for 
       vessel maintenance during the duration of the Work shall be quoted 
       as one price for all services; this price shall be firm for the 
       period of the Contract and is subject to increase only if the period 
       of the Contract is increased with the approval of the Department of 
       Public Works and Government Services, due to increased extent of the 
       work or other reason to be specified at the time.

4.     Docking and undocking:

       The price of the Work shall include all costs resulting from 
       drydocking, wharfage, security, shoring, shifting and/or moving of 
       the vessel within the Contractor's facility.

       Unless otherwise specified, the vessel will be delivered to the 
       Contractor's facility alongside or a mutually agreed safe transfer 
       point, afloat and upright and the Contractor shall do likewise when 
       the Work is completed.  The costs of services to tie up the vessel 
       alongside and to cast off shall be included in the price for the 
       Work.

5.     Supervisory service:

       We agree that services, including manufacturers' representatives, 
       engineers, etc., which are required to do the Work specified shall 
       be included in the original price.  Such services shall not be an 
       extra charge except where unscheduled Work requiring such services 
       is added to the original requirement.

6.     Removals:
 
       Removals necessary to carry out the Work shall be the responsibility 
       of the Contractor whether or not they are identified in the 
       Specifications, except those removals not apparent when viewing the 
       Vessel or examining the drawings.  The Contractor shall also be 
       responsible for safe storage of removed items and reinstalling them 
       on completion of the Work.  The Contractor shall be responsible for 
       renewal of components damaged during removal.

7.     Sheltering, staging, cranage and transportation:

       The price for the Work includes the cost of all sheltering, staging 
       including handrails, cranage and transportation to carry out the 
       Work as specified.  The cost of any necessary modification of such 
       facilities to meet applicable safety regulations shall be to the 
       Contractor's account.

</pre>