<pre>1. This is an urgent U.S. Government defense requirement and use of a 
United States Priority Rating is hereby authorized and assigned. This 
Priority Rating is valid only for the purchase of materials, sub-assemblies 
and components (excluding controlled materials) by the Contractor directly 
from U.S. suppliers up to a total of $ _____ (U.S. dollars).  Should the 
Contractor exceed this dollar limitation, the Contractor is authorized to 
proceed with the purchase order while providing the Priorities and 
Allocations Officer, Department of Supply and Services, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 
0S5, with details of the additional amount required.

2. The assigned U.S. Priority Rating, required delivery date, signature of 
an individual authorized to sign rated orders, and the following 
certification must be placed on or attached to the Contractor's purchase 
orders to United States suppliers: 

       "This is a rated order certified for national defense use, and the 
       Contractor is required to follow all the provisions of the Defense 
       Priorities and Allocations Systems Regulation (15 CFR, Part 350)."

3. Assigned U.S. priority ratings may not be extended within Canada; in 
consequence, when further materials are imported through the Contractor's 
Canadian subcontractors or distributors, the following clause shall be 
placed on the Contractor's purchase orders:

       "PRIORITY ASSISTANCE: This is an urgent defence requirement. If the 
       Contractor is importing any material/service from the U.S.A. for the 
       fulfilment of this Contract, contact the Priorities and Allocations 
       Officer, Department of Supply and Services, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0S5, 
       to request a U.S. Priority Rating."

4. The Contractor shall keep for a period of three (3) years, and shall 
produce to the Minister of Supply and Services, on request, a record of its 
authority to use the rating authorization and of all the uses made of it by 
the Contractor.

5. U.S. Controlled Materials or Special Priorities Assistance:   

If the Contractor is importing any U.S. controlled materials (such as steel, 
copper, aluminum, nickel, etc.), a separate application is required and 
shall be made to the Priorities and Allocations Officer, Department of 
Supply and Services, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0S5.

Should the Contractor need assistance in obtaining delivery under a 
   delinquent Rated Order with a U.S. firm, a request should also be made 
   to the Priorities and Allocations Officer.   
</pre>