<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Include in all bid solicitations and contracts placed on behalf of CIDA when 
shipment is by sea (FAS Port or FOB Plant) or by air (FOB Airport or FOB Plant). 
</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>The Overseas Traffic Section, Consumer Products and Traffic Management 
Branch, Department of Supply and Services, Place du Portage, Phase III, 
Hull, Quebec K1A 0S5, is responsible for issuance of shipping instructions 
and transportation overseas.

SHIPMENTS SHALL NOT BE EFFECTED UNTIL SHIPPING INSTRUCTIONS ARE RECEIVED 
FROM THE OVERSEAS TRAFFIC SECTION AND THESE WILL NOT BE ISSUED TO THE 
CONTRACTOR UNTIL AFTER DOCUMENTS (A) ARE RECEIVED.

All documents are to reflect the financial code, Contract number and 
consignee number.  Invoices must reflect the Contract item number, 
description of the commodity and values.  The packing list must detail the 
contents packed in each carton, box, etc., together with the individual 
dimensions, cubic displacement and gross weight per carton, box, etc.

Documents are to be submitted covering each shipment and are to state 
whether shipment is partial or complete.

A customs export entry form B-13, obtainable from the local Customs House 
or Post Office, is to be prepared for each shipment.

Inland bills of lading:

       (1)  For FAS Port or FOB Airport contracts, show the firm as the 
       shipper.

       (2)  For FOB Plant contracts, prepay inland transportation charges 
       and show them as a separate item on the invoice; show the Canadian 
       International Development Agency as shipper.

DOCUMENTATION:

Hazardous Materiel:

The nature, quantity and U.N. (United Nations) number of any hazardous 
material are to be included with each hazardous item, in accordance with 
the IMDG (International Maritime Dangerous Goods) Code and the latest IATA 
(International Air Transport Association) regulations.

Non-compliance with this requirement will render the supplier liable for 
any punitive action that may be taken by regulating authorities.

Documents are to be distributed as follows:

(A)  Documents hereunder to accompany request for shipping instructions to 
the Overseas Traffic Section, Consumer Products and Traffic Management 
Branch, Department of Supply and Services, Place du Portage, Phase III, 
Hull, Quebec K1A 0S5:

       (1)  seven (7) copies of the commercial invoice;

       (2)  seven (7) copies of the packing list;

       (3)  three (3) copies of the inspection report, if inspection is 
       required by the Contract.

NOTE:  The Contractor must give the location of the commodity(ies) to be 
shipped.

(B)  (1)  For sea shipments:  one (1) copy of the Inland Bill of
       Lading to the Overseas Traffic Section, Consumer Products and 
       Traffic Management Branch, AFTER SHIPMENT IS EFFECTED.
 
       (2)  For air shipments: two (2) invoices and packing lists to 
       accompany shipment(s) to the airport in an envelope addressed to the 
       consignee/clearing agent, and annotated: "Airlines: Clearing 
       documents for consignee/clearing agent; please attach to the air 
       waybill."

(C)  To CIDA, at the address to which invoices are to be forwarded

       (1)  original and four (4) copies of the commercial invoice;

       The Contractor shall include the following statement on all invoices:

              "We certify that prices on this invoice exclude the goods and 
              services tax, sales tax, refundable customs duty and excise 
              tax paid on goods or on parts and components incorporated in 
              the goods."

       (2)  one (1) signed copy of the inspection report, if applicable;

       (3)  proof of delivery (wharf receipt, bill of lading or air waybill).

(D) To the DSS Contracting Officer:

       (1)  one (1) copy of the commercial invoice.

 
</pre>