<pre>Hazardous Materiel:

The nature, quantity and U.N. (United Nations) number of any hazardous 
materiel are to be included with each hazardous item, in accordance with 
the IMDG (International Maritime Dangerous Goods) Code and the latest IATA 
(International Air Transport Association) regulations.

Non-compliance with this requirement will render the supplier liable for 
any punitive action that may be taken by regulating authorities.

Documents are to be distributed as follows:

(A)    To CIDA, at the address to which invoices are to be forwarded:

       (1)    one (1) signed copy plus one (1) unsigned copy of the air 
              waybill;

       (2)    original and four (4) copies of the commercial invoice made 
              out to the Canadian International Development Agency;

              The Contractor shall include the following statement on all 
              invoices:

              "We certify that prices on this invoice exclude the goods and 
              services tax, sales tax, refundable customs duty and excise 
              tax paid on goods or on parts and components incorporated in 
              the goods."

       (3)    five (5) copies of the packing list;

       (4)    one (1) copy of the inspection report, if inspection is 
              required by the Contract;

       (5)    two (2) copies of the insurance certificate (when on C.I.F. 
              air shipment basis).

(B)    To the clearing agent (consignee if no clearing agent is stated in 
       the Contract):

       (1)    one (1) signed copy plus one (1) unsigned copy of the air 
              waybill;

       (2)    three (3) copies of the commercial invoice;

       (3)    three (3) copies of the packing list;

       (4)    two (2) copies of the insurance certificate (when on C.I.F. 
              air shipment basis).

(C)    To the DSS Contracting Officer:

       (1)    one (1) copy of the commercial invoice.

PAYMENT:  Against commercial invoices and documentation as stated above by 
   the Comptroller, Canadian International Development Agency. 
</pre>