<pre>1.     It is a term of this contract:

       (a)    that the Contractor has declared to the Contracting Authority 
              whether the Contractor has received a lump sum payment made 
              pursuant to any work force reduction program, including but 
              not limited to the Work Force Adjustment Directive, the Early 
              Departure Incentive Program, the Early Retirement Incentive 
              Program or the Executive Employment Transition  Program, 
              which has been implemented to reduce the public service;

       (b)    that the Contractor has informed the Contracting Authority of 
              the terms and conditions of that work force reduction program, 
              pursuant to which the Contractor was made a lump sum payment, 
              including the termination date, the amount of the lump sum 
              payment and the rate of pay on which the lump sum payment was 
              based; and

       (c)    that the Contractor has informed the Contracting Authority of 
              any exemption in respect of the abatement of a contract fee 
              received by the Contractor under the Early Departure 
              Incentive Program Order or paragraph 4 of Policy Notice 1995-
              8, of July 28, 1995.

2.     The Contractor represents and warrants that the information 
       submitted with its bid is accurate and complete. The Contractor 
       acknowledges that the Minister has relied upon such representation 
       to enter into this Contract. Such representation may be verified in 
       such manner as the Minister may reasonably require.

3.     The Contractor acknowledges that in the event of a breach of such 
       covenant, the Minister shall have the right to rescind the Contract.

4.     Nothing in this clause shall be interpreted as limiting the rights 
       and remedies which Canada or the Minister may otherwise have in 
       relation to or pursuant to this Contract.


</pre>