<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>9601   00     (14/05/04)    General Conditions - Long Form</strong>


<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Powers of the Minister
03     Status of the Contractor
04     Amendments and Waivers
05     Conduct of the Work
06     Compliance with Applicable Laws
07     Specifications
08     Subcontracting
09     Replacement of Personnel
10     Assignment
11     Time of the Essence
12     Excusable Delay
13     Security and Protection of the Work
14     Payment
15     Interest on Overdue Accounts
16     Changes in Taxes and Duties
17     Discounts, Wastes and Spoilage
18     Inspection of the Work
19     Title
20     Warranty
21     Government Property
22     Indemnity Against Third-Party Claims
23     Royalties and Infringement
24     Copyright
25     Suspension of the Work
26     Default by the Contractor
27     Termination for Convenience
28     Accounts and Audit
29     Notice
30     Members of the House of Commons
31     Conflict of Interest
32     No Bribe
33     Survival
34     Severability
35     Successors and Assigns
36     Entire Agreement
37     Certification - Contingency Fees




<strong>9601   01     (14/05/04)    Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires,

       "Canada", "Crown", "Her Majesty" or "the Government" means Her 
          Majesty the Queen in right of Canada;

       "Contract" means the written agreement between the Parties, these 
          general conditions, any Supplemental General Conditions specified 
          in the written agreement, and every other document specified or 
          referred to in any of them as forming part of the Contract, all 
          as amended by agreement of the Parties from time to time;

       "Contracting Authority" means the person designated as such in the 
          Contract, or by notice to the Contractor, to act as the 
          representative of the Minister in the management of the Contract;

       "Contractor" means the person or entity whose name appears on the 
          signature page of the written agreement and who is to supply 
          goods or services to Canada under the Contract;

       "Contract Price" means the amount expressed in the Contract to be 
          payable to the Contractor for the Work;

       "Cost" means cost determined in accordance with Contract Cost 
          Principles 1031-2 as revised to the date of the bid solicitation;

       "Government Property" means all materials, parts, components, 
          specifications, equipment, software, articles and things supplied 
          to the Contractor by or on behalf of Canada for the purposes of 
          performing the Contract and anything acquired by the Contractor 
          in any manner in connection with the Work the cost of which is 
          paid by Canada under the Contract and, without restricting the 
          generality of the foregoing, includes Government Issue as defined 
          in the <em>Defence Production Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. D-1, Government 
          Furnished Equipment and Government Supplied Materiel;

       "Inspection Authority" means the person designated as such in the 
          Contract, or by notice to the Contractor, to act as the 
          representative of the minister for whose department or agency the 
          Work is being carried out in matters concerning the inspection of 
          the Work, and for purposes of section 18 (Inspection of the Work) 
          includes a Quality Assurance Authority if such an authority is 
          mentioned in the Contract;

       "Minister" means the Minister of Public Works and Government 
          Services and any other person duly authorized to act on behalf of 
          that Minister;

       "Moral Rights" has the same meaning as in the <em>Copyright Act</em>, R.S.C. 
          1985, c. C-42;

       "Party" means Canada or the Contractor or any other signatory to the 
          Contract and "Parties" means all of them;

       "Specifications" means the functional or technical description of 
          the Work set out or referred to in the Contract, including 
          drawings, samples and models, and further includes, except to the 
          extent inconsistent with anything set out or referred to in the 
          Contract, any such description set out or referred to in any 
          brochure, product literature or other documentation furnished by 
          the Contractor in relation to the Work or any part thereof;

       "Subcontract" includes a contract let by any subcontractor at any 
          tier for the performance or supply of a part of the Work, and 
          includes a purchase referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of section 08 
          at any such tier, and the derivatives of the word shall be 
          construed accordingly;

       "Technical Authority" means the person designated in the Contract, 
          or by notice to the Contractor, to act as the representative of 
          the Minister for whose department or agency the Work is being 
          carried out in matters concerning the technical aspects of the 
          Work;

       "Work" means the whole of the activities, services, materials, 
          equipment, software, matters and things required to be done, 
          delivered or performed by the Contractor in accordance with the 
          terms of the Contract.

2.     The headings used in these general conditions are inserted for 
          convenience of reference only and shall not affect their 
          interpretation. 
3.     If the Contract is a defence contract within the meaning of the <em>
          Defence Production Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. D-1, it is subject to 
          that Act and shall be governed accordingly.

4.     In the Contract, words importing the singular number include the 
          plural and vice versa, and words importing the masculine gender 
          include the feminine gender and the neuter.

<strong>9601   02     (04/01/94)    Powers of the Minister</strong>

Every right, remedy, power and discretion vested in or acquired by Canada 
or the Minister under the Contract or by law shall be cumulative and 
non-exclusive.

<strong>9601   03     (14/05/04)    Status of the Contractor</strong>

1.     The Contractor is engaged as an independent Contractor for the sole 
          purpose of performing the Work.  Neither the Contractor nor any 
          of its personnel is engaged as an employee, servant or agent of 
          Canada.  The Contractor is responsible for all deductions and 
          remittances required by law in relation to its employees 
          including those required for Canada or Quebec Pension Plans, 
          unemployment insurance, workers' compensation, or income tax.

2.     Without restricting the terms and conditions of the Contract, and 
          particularly section 22 of these general conditions, it is hereby 
          understood and agreed that, except to the extent caused by or due 
          to Canada, Canada shall not be liable for any losses, claims, 
          damages, or expenses relating to any injury, disease, illness, 
          disability or death of the Contractor or any employee, agent or 
          representative of the Contractor caused or alleged to be caused 
          as a result of performing the Contract.  The Contractor agrees to 
          fully protect and indemnify Canada and not to make any claims or 
          demands against Canada in respect of any of the foregoing 
          contingencies.

<strong>9601   04     (04/01/94)    Amendments and Waivers</strong>

1.     No design change, modification to the Work, or amendment to the 
          Contract shall be binding unless it is incorporated into the 
          Contract by written amendment or design change memorandum 
          executed by the authorized representatives of the Minister and of 
          the Contractor.

2.     While the Contractor may discuss any proposed changes or 
          modifications to the scope of the Work with the Technical 
          Authority, Canada shall not be liable for the cost of any such 
          change or modification until it has been incorporated into the 
          Contract in accordance with subsection 1.

3.     No waiver shall be valid, binding or affect the rights of the 
          Parties unless it is made in writing by, in the case of a waiver 
          by Canada, the Contracting Authority and, in the case of a waiver 
          by the Contractor, the authorized representative of the 
          Contractor.

4.     The waiver by a Party of a breach of any term or condition of the 
          Contract shall not prevent the enforcement of that term or 
          condition by that Party in the case of a subsequent breach, and 
          shall not be deemed or construed a waiver of any subsequent 
          breach.

<strong>9601   05     (04/01/94)    Conduct of the Work</strong>

1.     The Contractor represents and warrants that:

       (a)    it is competent to perform the Work; and

       (b)    it has the necessary qualifications, including knowledge, 
                 skill and experience, to perform the Work, together with 
                 the ability to use those qualifications effectively for 
                 that purpose.

2.     Except for Government Property specifically provided for in the 
          Contract, the Contractor shall supply everything necessary for 
          the performance of the Work, including all the resources, 
          facilities, labour and supervision, management, services, 
          equipment, materials, drawings, technical data, technical 
          assistance, engineering services, inspection and quality 
          assurance procedures, and planning necessary to perform the Work.

3.     The Contractor shall:

       (a)    carry out the Work in a diligent and efficient manner;

       (b)    apply as a minimum quality assurance tests, inspections and 
                 controls consistent with those in general usage in the 
                 trade and that are reasonably calculated to ensure the 
                 degree of quality required by the Contract; and

       (c)    ensure that the Work:

              (1)    is of proper quality, material and workmanship;

              (2)    is in full conformity with the Specifications; and

              (3)    meets all other requirements of the Contract.

4.     Unless the Minister orders the Work or part thereof to be suspended 
          pursuant to section 25 (Suspension of the Work), the Contractor 
          shall not stop or suspend any part of the Work pending the 
          settlement or resolution of any difference between the Parties 
          arising out of the Contract.

5.     The Contractor shall provide such reports on the performance of the 
          Work as are required by the Contract and such other reports as 
          may reasonably be required by the Minister or the Technical 
          Authority.

6.     The Contractor shall be fully responsible for performing the Work 
          and Canada shall not be liable for any negative consequences or 
          extra costs arising out of the Contractor's following any advice 
          given by Canada, whether given without or upon invitation by the 
          Contractor, unless the advice was provided to the Contractor in 
          writing by the Contracting Authority and was accompanied by a 
          statement specifically relieving the Contractor of any 
          responsibility for negative consequences or extra costs that 
          might arise from following the advice.

<strong>9601   06     (04/01/94)    Compliance with Applicable Laws</strong>

The Contractor shall comply with all laws applicable to the performance of 
the Work or any part thereof including, without limitation, all laws 
concerning health and labour conditions and the protection of the 
environment, and shall require compliance therewith by all of its 
subcontractors.  Evidence of compliance with such laws shall be furnished 
by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority at such times as the 
Contracting Authority may reasonably request.

<strong>9601   07     (25/05/01)    Specifications</strong>

1.     Where, pursuant to the terms of the Contract, Specifications 
          furnished by the Contractor are subject to approval by the 
          Minister or the Technical Authority, such approval shall not 
          relieve the Contractor of its responsibility to complete the Work 
          and to meet all requirements of the Contract.  Any such approval 
          shall not be unreasonably withheld.

2.     The Contractor agrees to accept and be bound by the Inspection or 
          Quality Assurance Authority's interpretation of the 
          Specifications, insofar as such an interpretation is not 
          inconsistent with any other part of the Contract.

<strong>9601   08     (04/01/94)    Subcontracting</strong>

1.     Unless otherwise provided in the Contract, the Contractor shall 
          obtain the consent of the Minister in writing prior to 
          Subcontracting or permitting the Subcontracting of any portion of 
          the Work at any tier. The Minister shall not unreasonably 
          withhold consent.

2.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, the Contractor may, without prior 
          consent of the Minister:

       (a)    purchase "off-the-shelf" items and software and such standard 
                 articles and materials as are ordinarily produced by 
                 manufacturers in the normal course of business;

       (b)    Subcontract for the provision of such incidental services as 
                 might ordinarily be subcontracted in performing the Work;

       (c)    in addition to purchases and services referred to in 
                 paragraphs (a) and (b), subcontract any part or parts of 
                 the Work to one or more subcontractors up to a total value 
                 in the aggregate of 40 percent of the Contract Price; and

       (d)    permit its subcontractors at any tier to make purchases or 
                 subcontract as permitted in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c). 
       A Subcontract at any tier may not be let without consent, under 
          paragraph (b), (c) or (d), where the Subcontractor would obtain 
          title to intellectual property developed as part of the Work.

3.     In any Subcontract other than a Subcontract referred to in paragraph 
          2 (a), the Contractor shall, unless the Minister otherwise 
          consents in writing, ensure that the subcontractor is bound by 
          terms and conditions compatible with and, in the opinion of the 
          Minister, not less favourable to Canada than the terms and 
          conditions of the Contract. Deviations in any Subcontract from 
          the terms of the Contract, including any right of termination of 
          the Contract, shall be entirely at the risk of the Contractor.

4.     The Contractor is not obliged to seek consent to subcontracts 
          specifically authorized in the Contract.

5.     Any consent to a Subcontract shall not relieve the Contractor from 
          its obligations under the Contract or be construed as authorizing 
          any liability on the part of Canada or the Minister to a 
          subcontractor.

<strong>9601   09     (04/01/94)    Replacement of Personnel</strong>

1.     When specific persons have been named in the Contract as the persons 
          who must perform the Work, the Contractor shall provide the 
          services of the persons so named unless the Contractor is unable 
          to do so for reasons beyond its control.

2.     If at any time the Contractor is unable to provide the services of 
          any specific person named in the Contract, it shall provide a 
          replacement person with similar qualifications and  experience.  
          The Contractor shall, as soon as possible, give notice to the 
          Minister of:

       (a)    the reason for the removal of the named person from the Work;

       (b)    the name, qualifications and experience of the proposed 
                 replacement person; and

       (c)    proof that the person has the required security clearance 
                 granted by Canada, if applicable.

3.     The Minister may order the removal from the Work of any such 
          replacement person and the Contractor shall immediately remove 
          the person from the Work and shall, in accordance with subsection 
          2, secure a further replacement.

4.     The fact that the Minister does not order the removal of a 
          replacement person from the Work shall not relieve the Contractor 
          from its responsibility to meet the requirements of the Contract.

<strong>9601   10     (04/01/94)    Assignment</strong>

1.     The Contract shall not be assigned, in whole or in part, by the 
          Contractor without the prior consent in writing of the Minister 
          and any purported assignment made without that consent is void 
          and of no effect.

2.     No assignment of the Contract shall relieve the Contractor from any 
          obligation under the Contract or impose any liability upon Canada 
          or the Minister, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the 
          Minister.

<strong>9601   11     (04/01/94)    Time of the Essence</strong>

Time is of the essence of the Contract.

<strong>9601   12     (04/01/94)    Excusable Delay</strong>

1.     A delay in the performance by the Contractor of any obligation under 
          the Contract which is caused solely by an event that

       (a)    was beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor,

       (b)    could not reasonably have been foreseen,

       (c)    could not reasonably have been prevented by means reasonably 
                 available to the Contractor, and

       (d)    occurred without the fault or neglect of the Contractor,

       shall, subject to subsections 2, 3 and 4, constitute an "Excusable 
          Delay" provided that the Contractor invokes this section by 
          notice under subsection 4.

2.     If any delay in the Contractor's performance of any obligation under 
          the Contract is caused by a delay of a Subcontractor, such a 
          delay may constitute an Excusable Delay for the Contractor, but 
          only if the delay of the Subcontractor meets the criteria set out 
          in this section for an Excusable Delay by the Contractor and only 
          to the extent that the delay has not been contributed to by the 
          Contractor.

3.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, any delay caused by lack of financial 
          resources of the Contractor or an event that is a ground for 
          termination provided for in subsection 26(2) (Default by the 
          Contractor), or any delay in the Contractor fulfilling an 
          obligation to deliver a bond, guarantee, letter of credit or 
          other security relating to performance or the payment of money, 
          shall not qualify as an Excusable Delay.

4.     The Contractor shall not benefit from an Excusable Delay unless the 
          Contractor has:

       (a)    used its best efforts to minimize the delay and recover lost 
                 time;

       (b)    advised the Minister of the occurrence of the delay or of the 
                 likelihood of a delay occurring as soon as the Contractor 
                 has become aware of it;

       (c)    within 15 working days of the beginning of a delay or of the 
                 likelihood of a delay coming to the attention of the 
                 Contractor, advised the Minister of the full facts or 
                 matters giving rise to the delay, and provided to the 
                 Minister for approval (which approval shall not be 
                 unreasonably withheld) a clear "work-around" plan 
                 indicating in detail the steps that the Contractor 
                 proposes to take in order to minimize the impact of the 
                 event causing the delay; this plan shall include 
                 alternative sources of materials and labour, if the event 
                 causing the delay involves the supply of them; and

       (d)    carried out the work-around plan approved by the Minister.

5.     In the event of an Excusable Delay, any delivery date or other date 
          that is directly affected shall be postponed for a reasonable 
          time not to exceed the duration of the Excusable Delay.  The 
          Parties shall amend the Contract, as appropriate, to reflect any 
          such change in dates.

6.     Notwithstanding subsection 5, the Minister may, after an Excusable 
          Delay has continued for 30 days or more, in the Minister's 
          absolute discretion terminate the Contract.  In such a case, the 
          Parties agree that neither will make any claim against the other 
          for damages, costs, expected profits or any other loss arising 
          out of the termination or the event that gave rise to the 
          Excusable Delay.  The Contractor agrees to repay immediately to 
          Canada the portion of any advance payment that is unliquidated at 
          the date of the termination.  Subsections 26(4), (5) and (6) 
          (Default by the Contractor) apply in the event of a termination 
          under this subsection.

7.     Except to the extent that Canada is responsible for the delay for 
          reasons of failure to meet an obligation under the Contract, 
          Canada shall not be liable for any costs or charges of any nature 
          incurred by the Contractor or any of its Subcontractors or agents 
          as a result of an Excusable Delay.

<strong>9601   13     (25/05/01)    Security and Protection of the Work</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall keep confidential all information provided to 
          the Contractor by or on behalf of Canada in connection with the 
          Work, including any information that is confidential or 
          proprietary to third parties, and all information conceived, 
          developed or produced by the Contractor as part of the Work where 
          copyright or any other intellectual property rights in such 
          information (except a licence) vests in Canada under the Contract.  
          The Contractor shall not disclose any such information to any 
          person without the written permission of the Minister, except 
          that the Contractor may disclose to a Subcontractor authorized in 
          accordance with section 08 (Subcontracting) information necessary 
          for the performance of the Subcontract, on the condition that the 
          Subcontractor agrees that it will be used solely for the purposes 
          of such Subcontract.  Information provided to the Contractor by 
          or on behalf of Canada shall be used solely for the purpose of 
          the Contract and shall remain the property of Canada or the third 
          party, as the case may be.  Unless the Contract otherwise 
          expressly provides, the Contractor shall deliver to Canada all 
          such information, together with every copy, draft, working paper 
          and note thereof that contains such information, upon completion 
          or termination of the Contract or at such earlier time as the 
          Minister may require. 

2.     Subject to the <em>Access to Information Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. A-1 and to 
          any right of Canada under this Contract to release or disclose, 
          Canada shall not release or disclose outside the Government of 
          Canada any information delivered to Canada under the Contract 
          that is proprietary to the Contractor or a Subcontractor.

3.     The obligations of the Parties set out in this section do not apply 
          to any information where the same information:

       (a)    is publicly available from a source other than the other 
                 Party; or

       (b)    is or becomes known to a Party from a source other than the 
                 other Party, except any source that is known to be under 
                 an obligation to the other Party not to disclose the 
                 information, or

       (c)    is developed by a Party without use of the information of the 
                 other Party.

4.     Wherever practical, the Contractor shall mark or identify any 
          proprietary information delivered to Canada under the Contract as 
          "Property of (Contractor's name), permitted Government uses 
          defined under Department of Public Works and Government Services 
          (PWGSC) Contract No. (fill in Contract number)", and Canada shall 
          not be liable for any unauthorized use or disclosure of 
          information that could have been so marked or identified and was 
          not.

5.     When the Contract, the Work, or any information referred to in 
          subsection 1 is identified as TOP SECRET, SECRET, CONFIDENTIAL, 
          or PROTECTED by Canada, the Contractor shall at all times take 
          all measures reasonably necessary for the safeguarding of the 
          material so identified, including those set out in the PWGSC <em>
          Industrial Security Manual</em> and its supplements and any other 
          instructions issued by the Minister.

6.     Without limiting the generality of subsections 1 and 2, when the 
          Contract, the Work, or any information referred to in subsection 
          1 is identified as TOP SECRET, SECRET, CONFIDENTIAL", or 
          PROTECTED by Canada, the Minister shall be entitled to inspect 
          the Contractor's premises and the premises of a Subcontractor at 
          any tier for security purposes at any time during the term of the 
          Contract, and the Contractor shall comply with, and ensure that 
          any such subcontractor complies with, all written instructions 
          issued by the Minister dealing with the material so identified, 
          including any requirement that employees of the Contractor or of 
          any such subcontractor execute and deliver declarations relating 
          to reliability screenings, security clearances and other 
          procedures.

7.     Any proposed change in the security requirements after the effective 
          date of the Contract that would involve a significant increase in 
          cost to the Contractor shall require an amendment to the Contract 
          under the provisions of section 04 (Amendments and Waivers).

<strong>9601   14     (04/01/94)    Payment</strong>

1.     Notwithstanding any other provision of the Contract, no payment 
          shall be made to the Contractor unless and until:

       (a)    an invoice, inspection notes, certificates and any other 
                 documents required by the Contract have been submitted in 
                 accordance with the terms of the Contract and the 
                 instructions of the Minister;

       (b)    all such documents have been verified by the Minister;

       (c)    with respect to all parts of the Work in respect of which 
                 payment is claimed, the Contractor, where required to do 
                 so, establishes to the satisfaction of the Minister that 
                 such parts of the Work will be free from all claims, liens, 
                 attachments, charges or encumbrances; and

       (d)    in the case of payment in respect of finished work, the 
                 finished work has been inspected by Canada and accepted as 
                 being in accordance with the Contract, including the 
                 Specifications.

2.     The Minister shall notify the Contractor, within 15 days of receipt 
          of an invoice, of any inadequacy of the invoice or of the 
          supporting documentation, and where any such notice is given 
          within that period the date for payment of the amount invoiced 
          shall be postponed until the Contractor remedies the inadequacy 
          to the satisfaction of the Minister.

3.     Where a delay referred to in section 12 (Excusable Delay) has 
          occurred, the Minister may, at the Minister's discretion, 
          withhold all or a portion of any payment due to the Contractor 
          until a "work-around" plan approved by the Minister has been 
          implemented in accordance with that section.  Section 15 
          (Interest on Overdue Accounts) shall not apply to any amount 
          withheld under this subsection.

<strong>9601   15     (01/12/00)    Interest on Overdue Accounts</strong>

1.     For the purposes of this section:

       "Average Rate" means the simple arithmetic mean of the Bank Rates in 
          effect at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time each day during the 
          calendar month which immediately precedes the calendar month in 
          which payment is made, where the "Bank Rate" means the rate of 
          interest established from time to time by the Bank of Canada as 
          the minimum rate at which the Bank of Canada makes short term 
          advances to members of the Canadian Payments Association.

       "date of payment" means the date of the negotiable instrument drawn 
          by the Receiver General for Canada and given for payment of an 
          amount due and payable;

       an amount is "due and payable" when it is due and payable by Canada 
          to the Contractor in accordance with the terms of the Contract; 
          and

       an amount becomes "overdue" when it is unpaid on the first day 
          following the day upon which it is due and payable.

2.     Subject to the Contract, Canada shall be liable to pay to the 
          Contractor simple interest at the Average Rate plus 3 percent per 
          annum on any amount that is overdue, from the date such amount 
          becomes overdue until the day prior to the date of payment, 
          inclusive. Interest shall be paid without notice from the 
          Contractor.

3.     Canada shall not be liable to pay interest in accordance with this 
          section if Canada is not responsible for the delay in paying the 
          Contractor.

4.     Canada shall not be liable to pay interest on overdue advance 
          payments.

<strong>9601   16     (04/01/94)    Changes in Taxes and Duties</strong>

1.     In this section, "bid" includes a proposal, tender or offer 
          submitted by the Contractor in response to an invitation from the 
          Minister.

2.     Subject to subsection 3, in the event of any change (including a new 
          imposition or repeal), on or after the date of submission of the 
          bid, of any tax, customs or other duty, charge, or any similar 
          imposition that is imposed under sales or excise tax legislation 
          of the Government of Canada and which affects the cost to the 
          Contractor of the Work, the Contract Price shall be adjusted to 
          reflect the increase or decrease in the cost to the Contractor.

3.     There shall be no adjustment under subsection 2 in respect of any 
          change that would increase the cost to the Contractor of the Work 
          if public notice of the change was given before the bid 
          submission date in sufficient detail to permit the Contractor to 
          have calculated the effect on its cost before that date.

4.     The Contractor shall forward to the Minister a certified statement 
          showing the increase or decrease in cost to the Contractor that 
          is directly attributable to the change in the imposition.  The 
          Minister may verify the increase or decrease in cost by audit 
          before or after the Contract Price is adjusted.

5.     Notwithstanding subsections 2 to 4, no adjustment to the Contract 
          Price in respect of the Work or a part thereof shall be made for 
          a change in any imposition referred to in this section that 
          occurs after the date required by the Contract for delivery of 
          the Work or that part of the Work.

<strong>9601   17     (04/01/94)    Discounts, Wastes and Spoilage</strong>

1.     This section applies only to a Contract or part thereof that has a 
          cost-reimbursable basis of payment.

2.     The Contractor shall, as far as practicable, take all trade 
          discounts, rebates, refunds of taxes and duties, credits, and 
          other allowances available in carrying out the Work.  In 
          determining the cost of articles, materials and services of every 
          kind to be paid by Canada, all trade discounts, rebates, refunds 
          of taxes and duties, credits and allowances not taken by the 
          Contractor shall be deducted from gross costs, except those not 
          taken through no fault or neglect on the part of the Contractor.

3.     The Contractor shall carry out the Work as economically as possible 
          and shall avoid waste and spoilage.  Where, in the opinion of the 
          Minister, the character and value of spoiled or wasted materials 
          constitutes mismanagement on the part of the Contractor, the cost 
          of the spoiled and wasted materials shall, to the extent directed 
          by the Minister, not be considered to be part of the cost of the 
          Work and the Contractor shall not be reimbursed therefor.

<strong>9601   18     (04/01/94)    Inspection of the Work</strong>

1.     The Work and any and all parts thereof shall be subject to such 
          inspection as the Technical or Inspection Authority determines to 
          be appropriate, consistent with the relevant provisions of the 
          Contract, if any, prior to acceptance by Canada.  The Contracting 
          Authority and the Technical or Inspection Authority, or their 
          representatives, shall have access to the Work at any time during 
          working hours where any part of the Work is being carried out and 
          may make examinations and such tests of the Work as they may 
          think fit.  Should the Work or any part thereof not be in 
          accordance with the requirements of the Contract, the Technical 
          or Inspection Authority shall have the right to reject the Work 
          and require its correction or replacement at the Contractor's 
          expense.  The Technical or Inspection Authority, as the case may 
          be, shall inform the Contractor of the reasons for any such 
          rejection.

2.     The Contractor shall provide all assistance and facilities, test 
          pieces, samples and documentation that the Technical or 
          Inspection Authority may reasonably require for the carrying out 
          of any such inspection, and the Contractor shall forward such 
          test pieces and samples to such person or location as the 
          Technical, Inspection or Contracting Authority may direct.  
          Inspection by the Technical or Inspection  Authority shall not 
          relieve the Contractor from responsibility to meet the 
          requirements of the Contract.

3.     No part of the Work shall be submitted for acceptance or delivery 
          until it has been inspected and approved by the Contractor and, 
          wherever practicable, marked with an approval stamp satisfactory 
          to the Technical or Inspection Authority. The Contractor shall 
          keep accurate and complete inspection records which shall, upon 
          request, be made available to the Technical or Inspection 
          Authority, who may make copies thereof and take extracts 
          therefrom during the performance of the Contract and for any 
          period of time thereafter provided for in the Contract.

<strong>9601   19     (04/01/94)    Title</strong>

1.     Except as otherwise provided in the Contract including the 
          intellectual property provisions, and except as provided in 
          subsection 2, title to the Work or any part thereof shall vest in 
          Canada upon delivery and acceptance thereof by or on behalf of 
          Canada.

2.     Except as otherwise provided in the intellectual property provisions 
          of the Contract, upon any payment being made to the Contractor 
          for or on account of materials, parts, work-in-process or 
          finished work, either by way of progress payments or accountable 
          advances or otherwise, title in and to all materials, parts, 
          work-in-process and finished work so paid for shall vest in and 
          remain in Canada unless already so vested under any other 
          provision of the Contract.

3.     Notwithstanding any vesting of title referred to in this section and 
          except as otherwise provided in the Contract, the risk of loss or 
          damage to the materials, parts, work-in-process or finished work 
          or part thereof so vested shall remain with the Contractor until 
          their delivery to Canada in accordance with the Contract.  The 
          Contractor shall be liable for any loss or damage to any part of 
          the Work caused by the Contractor or any subcontractor after such 
          delivery.
 
4.     Any vesting of title referred to in subsection 2 shall not 
          constitute acceptance by Canada of the materials, parts, 
          work-in-process or finished work, and shall not relieve the 
          Contractor of its obligation to perform the Work in accordance 
          with the Contract.

5.     Where title to any materials, parts, work-in-process or finished 
          work becomes vested in Canada, the Contractor shall, upon the 
          Minister's request, establish to the Minister's satisfaction that 
          the title is free and clear of all claims, liens, attachments, 
          charges or encumbrances and shall execute such conveyances 
          thereof and other instruments necessary to perfect that title as 
          the Minister may request.

6.     If the Contract is a defence Contract within the meaning of the 
          Defence Production Act, R.S.C. 1985, c. D-1, title to the Work or 
          to any materials, parts, work-in-process or finished work shall 
          vest in Canada free and clear of all claims, liens, attachments, 
          charges or encumbrances, and the Minister shall be entitled at 
          any time to remove, sell or dispose of it or any part of it in 
          accordance with section 20 of that Act.

<strong>9601   20     (25/05/01)    Warranty</strong>

1.     Notwithstanding inspection and acceptance of the Work by or on 
          behalf of Canada and without restricting any other provision of 
          the Contract or any condition, warranty or provision implied or 
          imposed by law, the Contractor warrants that, for a period of 12 
          months from the date of delivery, or if acceptance takes place on 
          a later date, the date of acceptance, or for such other period as 
          may be specified in the written agreement between the Parties, 
          the Work shall be free from all defects in design, materials or 
          workmanship, and shall conform with the requirements of the 
          Contract, provided that with respect to Government Property not 
          supplied by the Contractor, the Contractor's warranty shall 
          extend only to its proper incorporation into the Work.

2.     In the event of a defect or non-conformance in any part of the Work 
          during the warranty period defined in subsections 1 and 5, the 
          Contractor, at the request of the Minister to do so, shall as 
          soon as possible repair, replace or otherwise make good at its 
          own option and expense the part of the Work found to be defective 
          or not in conformance with the requirements of the Contract.

3.     The Work or any part thereof found to be defective or non-conforming 
          shall be returned to the Contractor's plant for replacement, 
          repair or making good; provided that, when in the opinion of the 
          Minister it is not expedient to remove the Work from its location, 
          the Contractor shall carry out any necessary repair or making 
          good of the Work at that location, and shall be paid the fair and 
          reasonable cost (including reasonable travelling and living 
          expenses) incurred in so doing, with no allowance therein by way 
          of profit, less an amount equal to the cost of rectifying the 
          defect or non-conformance at the Contractor's plant.

4.     Canada shall pay the transportation cost associated with returning 
          any work or part thereof to the Contractor's plant pursuant to 
          subsection 3, and the Contractor shall pay the transportation 
          cost associated with forwarding the replacement or returning the 
          Work or part thereof when rectified to the delivery point 
          specified in the Contract, or such lesser cost as may be required 
          to transport the Work or part thereof to another location 
          directed by the Technical Authority.

5.     The warranty period set out in subsection 1 shall be extended by the 
          duration of any period or periods during the life of the warranty, 
          including any such extension, in which the Work is unavailable 
          for use or cannot be used because of a defect or non-conformance 
          referred to in this section, less the duration of any delay by 
          Canada in informing the Contractor of the defect or 
          non-conformance or in returning the Work or part thereof to the 
          Contractor's plant.  Upon returning the Work or part thereof to 
          Canada, the Contractor shall advise the Minister in writing of 
          the warranty period remaining, including any such extension.

6.     The warranties set out in subsection 1 shall apply to any part of 
          the Work repaired, replaced or otherwise made good pursuant to 
          subsection 2, for the greater of

       (a)    the warranty period remaining under subsection 5, or

       (b)    90 days or such other period as may be specified for that 
                 purpose in the written agreement between the Parties.

       All of the provisions of subsections 2 to 6 of this section 
          inclusive apply, with such minimum changes as the context may 
          require, to any such part of the Work that is found during that 
          period to be defective or not in conformance with the Contract. 
<strong>9601   21     (04/01/94)    Government Property</strong>

1.     Unless otherwise provided in the Contract, all Government Property 
          shall be used by the Contractor solely for the purpose of the 
          Contract and shall remain the property of Canada, and the 
          Contractor shall maintain adequate accounting records of all 
          Government Property, and, whenever feasible, shall mark the same 
          as being the property of Canada.

2.     The Contractor shall take reasonable and proper care of all 
          Government Property while the same is in, on, or about the plant 
          and premises of the Contractor or otherwise in its possession or 
          subject to its control, and shall be responsible for any loss or 
          damage resulting from its failure to do so other than loss or 
          damage caused by ordinary wear and tear.

3.     All Government Property, except such as is installed or incorporated 
          into the Work, shall, unless otherwise specifically provided in 
          the Contract, be returned to Canada on demand.

4.     All scrap and all waste materials, articles or things that are 
          Government Property shall, unless otherwise provided in the 
          Contract, remain the property of Canada and shall be disposed of 
          only as directed by the Minister.

5.     At the time of completion of the Contract, and if requested by the 
          Contracting Authority, the Contractor shall provide an inventory 
          of all Government Property relating to the Contract to both the 
          Contracting Authority and the Technical Authority.

<strong>9601   22     (04/01/94)    Indemnity Against Third-party Claims</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless Canada, the 
          Minister and their servants and agents from and against any 
          damages, costs or expenses or any claim, action, suit or other 
          proceeding which they or any of them may at any time incur or 
          suffer as a result of or arising out of

       (a)    any injury to persons (including injuries resulting in death) 
                 or loss of or damage to property of others which may be or 
                 be alleged to be caused by or suffered as a result of the 
                 performance of the Work or any part thereof, except that 
                 Canada and the Minister shall not claim indemnity under 
                 this section to the extent that the injury, loss or damage 
                 has been caused by Canada, and

       (b)    any liens, attachments, charges or other encumbrances or 
                 claims upon or in respect of any materials, parts, 
                 work-in-process or finished work furnished to, or in 
                 respect of which any payment has been made by, Canada.

2.     The Minister shall give notice to the Contractor of any claim, 
          action, suit or proceeding referred to in subsection 1 and the 
          Contractor shall, to the extent requested by the Attorney General 
          of Canada, at its own expense participate in or conduct the 
          defence of any such claim, action, suit or proceeding and any 
          negotiations for settlement of the same, but the Contractor shall 
          not be liable to indemnify Canada for payment of any settlement 
          unless it has consented to the settlement.

<strong>9601   23     (04/01/94)    Royalties and Infringement</strong>

1.     In this section, "Royalties" includes

       (a)    license fees and all other payments analogous to royalties 
                 for, and also claims for damages based upon, the use or 
                 infringement of any patent, registered industrial design, 
                 trade mark, copyrighted work, trade secret, or other 
                 intellectual property right, and

       (b)    any costs or expenses incurred as a result of the exercise by 
                 any person of Moral Rights.

2.     Subject to subsection 4, the Contractor shall indemnify and save 
          harmless Canada, the Minister and their servants and agents 
          against any claim, action, suit or other proceeding for the 
          payment of Royalties, that results from or is alleged to result 
          from the carrying out of the Contract or the use or disposal by 
          Canada of anything furnished by the Contractor under the Contract.

3.     Canada shall indemnify and save harmless the Contractor and its 
          servants and agents against any claim, action, suit or other 
          proceeding for the payment of Royalties, that results from or is 
          alleged to result from
 
       (a)    the use by the Contractor in performing the Contract of 
                 equipment, Specifications or other information not 
                 prepared by the Contractor and supplied to the Contractor 
                 by or on behalf of Canada, or

       (b)    the Contractor complying with production drawings not 
                 prepared by the Contractor and supplied by or on behalf of 
                 Canada which direct an alteration of or modification to 
                 the Work,

       provided that the Contractor notifies the Minister immediately of 
          any such claim, action, suit or other proceeding, but Canada 
          shall not be liable to indemnify or save harmless the Contractor 
          for payment of any settlement unless Canada has consented to the 
          settlement.

4.     The Minister shall give notice to the Contractor of any claim, 
          action, suit or proceeding referred to in subsection 2 and the 
          Contractor shall, to the extent requested by the Attorney General 
          of Canada, at its own expense participate in or conduct the 
          defence of any such claim, action, suit or proceeding and any 
          negotiations for settlement of the same, but the Contractor shall 
          not be liable to indemnify or save harmless Canada for payment of 
          any settlement unless it has consented to the settlement.

5.     The Contractor shall notify the Minister of all Royalties which it 
          or any of its subcontractors will or may be obligated to pay or 
          propose to pay in respect of carrying out the Contract, and the 
          basis thereof, and the parties to whom the same are payable, and 
          shall promptly advise the Minister of any and all claims which 
          would or might result in further or different payments by way of 
          Royalties being made by the Contractor or any of its 
          subcontractors.

6.     Where and to the extent that the Minister so directs, the Contractor 
          shall not pay and shall direct its subcontractors not to pay any 
          Royalties in respect of the carrying out of the Contract.

7.     After the giving of any direction provided for in subsection 6, and 
          subject to compliance by the Contractor with the foregoing 
          provisions, Canada shall indemnify the Contractor and its 
          subcontractors from and against all claims, actions, suits or 
          proceedings for payment of such Royalties as are covered by the 
          direction.

8.     The Contractor shall not be entitled to any payment in respect of 
          any Royalties included in the Contract Price to which the 
          indemnity provided in subsection 7 applies.

<strong>9601   24     (25/05/01)    Copyright</strong>

1.     In this section,

       "Material" means anything that is created or developed by the 
          Contractor as part of the Work under the Contract, and in which 
          copyright subsists, but does not include computer programs and 
          related software documentation.

2.     Copyright in the Material shall vest in Canada and the Contractor 
          shall incorporate in all Material the copyright symbol and either 
          of the following notices, as appropriate:

       ©  HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF Canada (year)

       or

       ©  SA MAJESTÉ LA REINE DU CHEF DU CANADA (year)

3.     At the completion of the Contract, or at such other time as the 
          Contract or the Minister may require, the Contractor shall fully 
          and promptly disclose to the Minister all Material created or 
          developed under the Contract.

4.     Where copyright in any Material vests in Canada under the Contract, 
          the Contractor shall execute such conveyances and other documents 
          relating to title or copyright as the Minister may require.

5.     The Contractor shall not use, copy, divulge or publish any Material 
          except as is necessary to perform the Contract.

6.     At the request of the Minister, the Contractor shall provide to 
          Canada, at the completion of the Work or at such other time as 
          the Minister may require, a written permanent waiver of Moral 
          Rights, in a form acceptable to the Minister, from every author 
          that contributed to the Material.

7.     If the Contractor is an author of the Material, the Contractor 
          hereby permanently waives the Contractor's Moral Rights in 
          respect of the Material.

<strong>9601   25     (04/01/94)    Suspension of the Work</strong>

1.     The Minister may at any time, by written notice, order the 
          Contractor to suspend or stop all or part of the Work under the 
          Contract for a period of up to 180 days. The Contractor shall 
          immediately comply with any such order in the manner that 
          minimizes the cost of so doing. While such an order is in effect, 
          the Contractor shall not remove any part of the Work from any 
          premises without the prior written consent of the Contracting 
          Authority. At any time prior to the expiration of the 180 days, 
          the Minister shall either rescind the order or terminate the 
          Contract, in whole or in part, under section 26 (Default by the 
          Contractor) or section 27 (Termination for Convenience).

2.     When an order is made under subsection 1, unless the Minister 
          terminates the Contract by reason of default by the Contractor or 
          the Contractor abandons the Contract, the Contractor shall be 
          entitled to be paid its additional costs incurred as a result of 
          the suspension plus a fair and reasonable profit thereon.

3.     When an order is made under subsection 1 and is rescinded:

       (a)    the Contractor shall as soon as practicable resume work in 
                 accordance with the Contract;

       (b)    if the suspension has affected the Contractor's ability to 
                 meet any delivery date under the Contract, the date for 
                 the performance of that part of the Work affected by the 
                 suspension shall be extended for a period equal to the 
                 period of suspension plus a period, if any, which in the 
                 opinion of the Minister following consultation with the 
                 Contractor is reasonably necessary for the Contractor to 
                 resume the Work; and

       (c)    subject to section 04 (Amendments and Waivers), an equitable 
                 adjustment shall be made as necessary to affected terms 
                 and conditions of the Contract.

<strong>9601   26     (04/01/94)    Default by the Contractor</strong>

1.     Where the Contractor is in default in carrying out any of its 
          obligations under the Contract, the Minister may, upon giving 
          written notice to the Contractor, terminate for default the whole 
          or any part of the Contract, either immediately, or at the 
          expiration of a cure period specified in the notice if the 
          Contractor has not cured the default to the satisfaction of the 
          Minister within that cure period.

2.     Where the Contractor becomes bankrupt or insolvent, makes an 
          assignment for the benefit of creditors, or takes the benefit of 
          any statute relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors, or where a 
          receiver is appointed under a debt instrument or a receiving 
          order is made against the Contractor, or an order is made or a 
          resolution passed for the winding up of the Contractor, the 
          Minister may, to the extent permitted by the laws of Canada, upon 
          giving notice to the Contractor, immediately terminate for 
          default the whole or any part of the Contract.

3.     Upon the giving of a notice provided for in subsection 1 or 2, the 
          Contractor shall have no claim for further payment other than as 
          provided in this section, but shall be liable to Canada for any 
          amounts, including milestone payments, paid by Canada and for all 
          losses and damages which may be suffered by Canada by reason of 
          the default or occurrence upon which the notice was based, 
          including any increase in the cost incurred by Canada in 
          procuring the Work from another source.  The Contractor agrees to 
          repay immediately to Canada the portion of any advance payment 
          that is unliquidated at the date of the termination. Nothing in 
          this section affects any obligation of Canada under the law to 
          mitigate damages.

4.     Upon termination of the Contract under this section, the Minister 
          may require the Contractor to deliver to Canada, in the manner 
          and to the extent directed by the Minister, any completed parts 
          of the Work which have not been delivered and accepted prior to 
          the termination and any materials, parts, plant, equipment or 
          work-in-process which the Contractor has acquired or produced 
          specifically in the fulfilment of the Contract.

5.     Subject to the deduction of any claim that Canada may have against 
          the Contractor arising under the Contract or out of the 
          termination, Canada shall pay or credit to the Contractor the 
          value, determined on the basis of the Contract Price including 
          the proportionate part of the Contractor's profit or fee included 
          in the Contract Price, of all completed parts of the Work 
          delivered to Canada pursuant to a direction under subsection 4 
          and accepted by Canada, and shall pay or credit to the Contractor 
          the cost to the Contractor that the Minister considers reasonable 
          in respect of all materials, parts, plant, equipment or 
          work-in-process delivered to Canada pursuant to a direction under 
          subsection 4 and accepted by Canada, but in no event shall the 
          aggregate of the amounts paid by Canada under the Contract to the 
          date of termination and any amounts payable pursuant to this 
          subsection exceed the Contract Price.

6.     Title to all materials, parts, plant, equipment, work-in-process and 
          finished work in respect of which payment is made to the 
          Contractor shall, upon such payment being made, pass to and vest 
          in Canada unless already so vested under any other provision of 
          the Contract, and such materials, parts, plant, equipment, 
          work-in-process and finished work shall be delivered according to 
          the order of the Minister, but Canada will not accept and will 
          not pay for materials, parts, plant, equipment or work-in-process 
          that would not have been required to perform the Work or that 
          exceed what would have been required to perform the Work.

7.     Where, subsequent to issuance of a notice pursuant to subsection 1, 
          the Minister is satisfied that grounds did not exist for a 
          termination under this section, the notice shall be deemed a 
          notice of termination for convenience issued under subsection 27(
          1) (Termination for Convenience).

<strong>9601   27     (14/05/04)    Termination for Convenience</strong>

1.     Notwithstanding anything contained in the Contract, the Minister may, 
          at any time prior to the completion of the Work, by giving notice 
          to the Contractor (in this section sometimes referred to as a "
          termination notice"), terminate the Contract as regards all or 
          any part of the Work not completed. Upon a termination notice 
          being given, the Contractor shall cease work (including the 
          manufacture and procuring of materials for the fulfilment of the 
          Contract) in accordance with and to the extent specified in the 
          notice, but shall proceed to complete such part or parts of the 
          Work as are not affected by the termination notice. The Minister 
          may, at any time or from time to time, give one or more 
          additional termination notices with respect to any or all parts 
          of the Work not terminated by any previous termination notice.

2.     In the event of a termination notice being given pursuant to 
          subsection 1, the Contractor shall be entitled to be paid, to the 
          extent that costs have been reasonably and properly incurred for 
          purposes of performing the Contract and to the extent that the 
          Contractor has not already been so paid or reimbursed by Canada 
          including the unliquidated portion of any advance payment:

       (a)    on the basis of the Contract Price, for all completed work 
                 that is inspected and accepted in accordance with the 
                 Contract, whether completed before, or after and in 
                 compliance with the instructions contained in, the 
                 termination notice;

       (b)    the cost to the Contractor plus a fair and reasonable profit 
                 thereon, for all work terminated by the termination notice 
                 before completion, the cost to the Contractor being 
                 determined in accordance with the terms of the Contract 
                 and with Contract Cost Principles 1031-2;

       (c)    the amount of any capital expenditures actually incurred only 
                 if they were specifically authorized under the Contract or 
                 approved in writing by the Minister for the purpose of the 
                 Contract, less any depreciation in respect thereof already 
                 taken into account in determining cost, to the extent that 
                 the capital expenditures are properly apportionable to the 
                 performance of the Contract;

       (d)    if the Contract is exclusively for the making of capital 
                 expenditures in respect of additional equipment or plant 
                 additions, in lieu of the amounts described in paragraphs 
                 (a) to (c) inclusive, the reasonable and proper cost to 
                 the Contractor of:

              (1)    all additional equipment that, prior to the giving of 
                        the termination notice, has been purchased, 
                        acquired or manufactured by the Contractor or 
                        contracted for and for which the Contractor is 
                        obligated to make payment, and

              (2)    all additional equipment in process of manufacture by 
                        the Contractor at the date of giving of the 
                        termination notice and all work in connection with 
                        the construction of the plant additions to that 
                        date, including the cost of materials and parts 
                        Contracted for by the Contractor for the purpose of 
                        such manufacture or construction and for which the 
                        Contractor is obligated to make payment; and
 
       (e)    all costs of and incidental to the termination of the Work or 
                 part thereof, including the cost of cancellation of 
                 obligations incurred by the Contractor with respect to the 
                 terminated Work or part thereof, the cost of and 
                 incidental to the taking of an inventory of materials, 
                 components, work-in-process and finished work on hand 
                 related to the Contract at the date of the termination, 
                 and the cost of preparation of necessary accounts and 
                 statements with respect to work performed to the effective 
                 date of the termination and commitments made by the 
                 Contractor with respect to the terminated portions of the 
                 Work; but not including the cost of severance payments or 
                 damages to employees whose services are no longer required 
                 by reason of the termination except wages that the 
                 Contractor is obligated by statute to pay them and except 
                 for reasonable severance payments or damages paid to 
                 employees hired to perform the Contract whose hiring was 
                 expressly required by the Contract or approved in writing 
                 by the Minister for the purpose of the Contract.

3.     In paragraphs 2(c) and (d), "capital expenditures" includes the 
          entry into leases of real property and equipment.

4.     The Minister may reduce the payment in respect of any of the Work to 
          the extent that, upon inspection, it is deficient in meeting the 
          requirements of the Contract.

5.     Notwithstanding anything in subsection 2, the total of the amounts 
          to which the Contractor is entitled under paragraphs 2(a) to (d) 
          inclusive, together with any amounts paid or due or becoming due 
          to the Contractor under other provisions of the Contract, shall 
          not exceed the Contract Price or the portion thereof that is 
          applicable to the part of the Work that is terminated, and shall 
          not exceed the proportion of the price quoted by the Contractor 
          for all of the Work that is reasonably attributable to the 
          proportion of the Work performed to the effective date of the 
          termination.

6.     In the procuring of materials and parts required for the performance 
          of the Contract and in the subcontracting of any of the Work, the 
          Contractor shall, unless otherwise authorized by the Minister, 
          place purchase orders and subcontracts on terms that will enable 
          the Contractor to terminate the same upon terms and conditions 
          similar in effect to those provided in this section, and 
          generally the Contractor shall co-operate with the Minister and 
          do everything reasonably within its power at all times to 
          minimize the amount of Canada's obligations in the event of a 
          termination under this section.

7.     Title to all materials, parts, plant, equipment, work-in-process and 
          finished work in respect of which payment is made to the 
          Contractor shall, upon such payment being made, pass to and vest 
          in Canada unless already so vested under any other provision of 
          the Contract, and such materials, parts, plant, equipment, 
          work-in-process and finished work shall be delivered according to 
          the order of the Minister, but Canada will not accept and will 
          not pay for materials, parts, plant, equipment or work-in-process 
          that would not have been required to perform the Work or that 
          exceed what would have been required to perform the Work.

8.     The Contractor shall have no claim for damages, compensation, loss 
          of profit, allowance or otherwise by reason of, or directly or 
          indirectly arising out of, any action taken or termination notice 
          given by the Minister under this section, except to the extent 
          that this section expressly provides.

<strong>9601   28     (04/01/94)    Accounts and Audit</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall keep proper accounts and records of the cost to 
          the Contractor of the Work and of all expenditures or commitments 
          made by the Contractor in connection therewith, and shall keep 
          all invoices, receipts and vouchers relating thereto.  The 
          Contractor shall not, without the prior written consent of the 
          Minister, dispose of any such accounts, records, invoices, 
          receipts or vouchers until the expiration of 6 years after final 
          payment under this Contract, or until the settlement of all 
          outstanding claims and disputes, whichever is later.

2.     All such accounts and records as well as any invoices, receipts and 
          vouchers shall at all times during the retention period referred 
          to in subsection 1 be open to audit, inspection and examination 
          by the authorized representatives of the Minister, who may make 
          copies and take extracts thereof.  The Contractor shall provide 
          all facilities for such audits and inspections and shall furnish 
          all such information as the representatives of the Minister may 
          from time to time require with respect to such accounts, records, 
          invoices, receipts and vouchers.

 
<strong>9601   29     (04/01/94)    Notice</strong>

Any notice shall be in writing and may be delivered by hand or by courier, 
by registered mail, or by facsimile or other electronic means that provides 
a paper record of the text of the notice, addressed to the Party for whom 
it is intended at the address in the Contract or at the last address of 
which the sender has received notice in accordance with this section.  Any 
notice shall be deemed to be effective on the day it is received at that 
address.

<strong>9601   30     (04/01/94)    Members of the House of Commons</strong>

No member of the House of Commons shall be admitted to any share or part of 
the Contract or to any benefit arising from the Contract.

<strong>9601   31     (12/12/03)    Conflict of Interest</strong>

The Contractor agrees that it is a term of the Contract that no person who 
is not in compliance with the provisions of the Conflict of Interest and 
Post-Employment Code for Public Office Holders or the Values and Ethics 
Code for the Public Service (2003), shall derive any direct benefit from 
this Contract.

<strong>9601   32     (01/06/94)    No Bribe</strong>

The Contractor represents and covenants that no bribe, gift, benefit, or 
other inducement has been or will be paid, given, promised or offered 
directly or indirectly to any official or employee of Canada or to a member 
of the family of such a person, with a view to influencing the entry into 
the Contract or the administration of the Contract.

<strong>9601   33     (04/01/94)    Survival</strong>

All of the Contractor's obligations of confidentiality and all of the 
Contractor's representations and warranties set out in the Contract as well 
as the provisions concerning Specifications, warranty, Government Property, 
indemnity against third-party claims, royalties and infringement, 
intellectual property rights and accounts and audit shall survive the 
expiry of the Contract or the termination of the Contract for default, for 
convenience, pursuant to subsection 12(6) (Excusable Delay), or by mutual 
consent, as shall any other provision of the Contract which, by the nature 
of the rights or obligations set out therein, might reasonably be expected 
to be intended to so survive.

<strong>9601   34     (04/01/94)    Severability</strong>

If any provision of the Contract is declared by a court of competent 
jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, such provision shall 
be severed from the Contract and all other provisions of the Contract shall 
remain in full force and effect.

<strong>9601   35     (04/01/94)    Successors and Assigns</strong>

The Contract shall enure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the 
successors and permitted assignees of Canada and of the Contractor.

<strong>9601   36     (04/01/94)    Entire Agreement</strong>

The Contract constitutes the entire and sole agreement between the parties 
with respect to the subject matter of the Contract and supersedes all 
previous negotiations, communications and other agreements, whether written 
or oral, relating to it, unless they are incorporated by reference in the 
Contract.  There are no terms, covenants, representations, statements or 
conditions binding on the parties other than those contained in the 
Contract.

<strong>9601   37     (06/06/94)    Certification - Contingency Fees</strong>

1.     The Contractor certifies that it has not directly or indirectly paid 
          or agreed to pay and covenants that it will not directly or 
          indirectly pay a contingency fee for the solicitation, 
          negotiation or obtaining of this Contract to any person other 
          than an employee acting in the normal course of the employee's 
          duties.

2.     All accounts and records pertaining to payments of fees or other 
          compensation for the solicitation, obtaining or negotiation of 
          the Contract shall be subject to the Accounts and Audit 
          provisions of the Contract. 
3.     If the Contractor certifies falsely under this section or is in 
          default of the obligations contained therein, the Minister may 
          either terminate this Contract for default in accordance with the 
          termination for default provisions of the Contract or recover 
          from the Contractor by way of reduction to the Contract Price or 
          otherwise the full amount of the contingency fee.

4.     In this section:

       "contingency fee" means any payment or other compensation that is 
          contingent upon or is calculated upon the basis of a degree of 
          success in soliciting or obtaining a government Contract or 
          negotiating the whole or any part of its terms;

       "employee" means a person with whom the Contractor has an employer/
          employee relationship;

       "person" includes an individual or group of individuals, a 
          corporation, a partnership, an organization and an association 
          and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, 
          includes any individual who is required to file a return with the 
          registrar pursuant to section 5 of the <em>Lobbyist Registration Act</em>, 
          R.S. 1985 c.44 (4th Supplement) as the same may be amended from 
          time to time.


</pre>
</div>