<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Environmental Impairment Liability Insurance protects the Contractor against 
claims caused by chronic pollution damage to the environment, persons and 
property.  It is important to know that the term pollution can have specific 
meaning in context of an insurance policy and will include most waste products.  
This clause is more appropriate in instances where the Contractor owns the 
premises in which the operations would be carried out.  Example, a waste 
disposal facility.

In many instances, it is equally effective to simply add endorsement (e) of 
G2015D to the basic clause G2001D; particularly when the Contractor's ownership 
of premises is not a contract prerequisite.  However, this later alternative 
would not apply to multi-year contracts with custody and control 
responsibilities.

The term Contractor's Pollution Liability is also common in the insurance 
industry for certain regions and equally acceptable.

If either the contracting officer or the client believes that the suggested 
MINIMUM LIMIT of liability of $1,000,000 per loss is not sufficient, alternate 
limits may be established in consultation with the client and the Risk 
Management and Insurance Advisor, Public Works and Government Services Canada 
(NCR RMIAS-SCGRA@pwgsc.gc.ca).

Refer to G2015D for important additional endorsements that may apply to specific 
contracting areas.
</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     Environmental Impairment Liability insurance shall be effected by 
       the Contractor and maintained in force throughout the duration of 
       the Contract in an amount usual for a contract of this nature, but, 
       in any case, for a limit of liability NOT LESS THAN $1,000,000 per 
       accident or occurrence and in the aggregate.

2.     If this is a claims made policy and the duration of the Contract 
       exceeds the policy term; in the event of cancellation or non-renewal 
       of the policy, an Extended Claims Reporting Endorsement, minimum 
       twelve (12) months, must be secured by the Contractor.

3.     The policy must include the following endorsements:

       (a)    Additional Insured:  Canada is included as an additional 
              insured, but only with respect to liabilities that may arise 
              from the Contractor's own negligence in the performance of 
              the Contract.

       (b)    Notice of Cancellation:  The Insurer agrees to provide the 
              Contracting Authority thirty (30) days written notice of 
              policy cancellation.

       (c)    Cross Liability:  Without increasing the limit of liability, 
              the policy shall protect all insured parties to the full 
              extent of coverage provided.  Further, the policy shall apply 
              to each Insured in the same manner and to the same extent as 
              if a separate policy had been issued to each.

       (d)    Contractual Liability:  The policy shall, on a blanket basis 
              or by specific reference to this Contract, extend to assumed 
              liabilities with respect to contractual insurance provisions.

       (e)    Employees and Volunteers as Additional Insured:  All 
              employees and volunteers, on behalf of the Contractor, shall 
              be included as additional insured.

       (f)    Voluntary Medical Payments, $5,000 per person, $25,000 per 
              accident:  To provide for expenses incurred in instances of 
              minor accidental bodily injuries.

       (g)    Incidental Transit Extension:  To provide coverage for 
              incidents arising in the transport of waste material.

</pre>