<pre>1.     Financial Capability Requirement:  The Bidder must have the 
       financial capability to undertake this requirement.  To determine 
       the Bidder's financial capability, the Contracting Authority may, by 
       written notice to the Bidder, require the submission of some or all 
       of the financial information detailed below during the evaluation of 
       bids.  The Bidder must provide the following information to the 
       Contracting Authority within fifteen (15) working days of the 
       request or as specified by the Contracting Authority in the notice:

       (a)    Audited financial statements, if available, or the unaudited 
              financial statements (prepared by the Bidder's outside 
              accounting firm, if available, or prepared in-house if no 
              external statements have been prepared) for the Bidder's last 
              three fiscal years, or for the years that the Bidder has been 
              in business if this is less than three years (including, as a 
              minimum, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Retained 
              Earnings, the Income Statement and any notes to the 
              statements).

       (b)    If the date of the financial statements is more than five 
              months before the date of the request for information by the 
              Contracting Authority in (a) above, the Bidder must also 
              provide the last quarterly financial statements (consisting 
              of a Balance Sheet and a year-to-date Income Statement) as of 
              two months before the date on which the Contracting Authority 
              requests the information.

       (c)    If the Bidder has not been in business for at least one full 
              fiscal year, the following must be provided:

              (i)    the opening Balance Sheet on commencement of business 
                     (in the case of a corporation, the date of 
                     incorporation); and

              (ii)   the last quarterly financial statements (consisting of 
                     a Balance Sheet and a year-to-date Income Statement) 
                     as of two months before to the date on which the 
                     Contracting Authority requests the information.

       (d)    A certification from the Chief Financial Officer or an 
              authorized signing officer of the Bidder that the financial 
              information provided is complete and accurate.

       (e)    A confirmation letter from all of the financial institution(s) 
              that have provided short-term financing to the Bidder 
              outlining the total of lines of credit granted to the Bidder 
              and the amount of credit that remains available and not drawn 
              upon as of one month prior to the date on which the 
              Contracting Authority requests this information.

       (f)    A detailed monthly Cash Flow Statement, covering all the 
              Bidder's activities (including the requirement) for the first 
              two years of the requirement that is the subject of the bid 
              solicitation.  This statement must detail the Bidder's major 
              sources and amounts of cash and the major items of cash 
              expenditures on a monthly basis, for all the Bidder's 
              activities.  All assumptions made should be explained as well 
              as details of how cash shortfalls will be financed. 

       (g)    A detailed monthly Project Cash Flow Statement covering the 
              first two years of the requirement that is the subject of the 
              bid solicitation.  This statement must detail the Bidder's 
              major sources and amounts of cash and the major items of cash 
              expenditures, for the requirement, on a monthly basis.  All 
              assumptions made should be explained as well as details of 
              how cash shortfalls will be financed.

2.     If the Bidder is a joint venture, the financial information required 
       by the Contracting Authority must be provided by each member of the 
       joint venture.

3.     If the Bidder is a subsidiary of another company, then any financial 
       information required by the Contracting Authority in 1. (a) to (f) 
       must be provided by each level of parent company, to and including 
       the ultimate parent company.  Provision of parent company financial 
       information does not satisfy the requirement for the provision of 
       the financial information of the Bidder and the financial capability 
       of a parent cannot be substituted for the financial capability of 
       the Bidder itself, unless a duly executed Parental Guarantee is 
       provided with the required information.

4.     <strong>Other Information</strong>:  Canada reserves the right to request from the 
       Bidder any other information that Canada requires to conduct a 
       complete financial capability assessment of the Bidder. 

5.     <strong>Confidentiality</strong>:  Should the Bidder provide the information required 
       above to Canada in confidence while indicating that the disclosed 
       information is confidential, then Canada will treat the information 
       in a confidential manner as permitted by the <em>Access to Information 
       Act</em>, R.S., 1985, c. A-1, Section 20(1) (b) and (c). 

6.     <strong>Security</strong>:  In determining the Bidder's financial capability to 
       undertake this requirement, Canada may consider any security the 
       Bidder is capable of providing, at the Bidder's sole expense (for 
       example, an irrevocable letter of credit from a registered financial 
       institution drawn in favour of Canada, a performance guarantee from 
       a third party or some other form of security, as determined by 
       Canada).



</pre>