<pre><strong>GC 5.1        (30/05/03)    Fees</strong>

1.     Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, and in 
       consideration for the performance of the Services, Canada shall pay 
       to the Consultant a sum of money calculated in accordance with the 
       provisions herein and the Agreement Particulars.

2.     The Consultant's fees are only payable when the Consultant has 
       performed the Services as determined by the Departmental 
       Representative.  Payment in respect of a Service, or part of a 
       Service, is not to be deemed a waiver of Canada's rights of set-off 
       at law or under the Agreement for costs or expenses arising from 
       default or negligence of the Consultant.

3.     The maximum amount payable under the Agreement, including fees and 
       disbursements, shall not exceed the sum specified in the Agreement 
       Particulars, without the prior written authorization of the 
       Departmental Representative in accordance with the terms of the 
       Agreement.

<strong>GC 5.2 (30/05/03)    Fee Arrangement(s) for Services</strong>

1.     The fee to be paid to the Consultant for the Services described 
       herein, shall be determined by one or more of the following 
       arrangements as specified in the Agreement Particulars:

       (a)    Percentage Fee

              The calculation of the total fee recognizes the variability 
              of the Construction Cost Estimate as the Project develops.  
              The fee for the various Services of the Project development 
              shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula:

              An amount equal to F x A
              Where F = the percentage specified in the Agreement 
              Particulars, and A = as follows:

              (i)    At Analysis of Project Requirements and Design Concept: 
                     A = the Construction Cost Estimate at the time of 
                     signing the Agreement.

              (ii)   At Design Development:
                     A = the accepted preliminary Construction Cost 
                     Estimate prepared on completion of the design concept 
                     documents.

              (iii)  At Construction Documents:
                     A = the accepted updated Construction Cost Estimate 
                     prepared on completion of the design development 
                     documents.

              (iv)   At Tender Call and Tender Evaluation:
                     A = the accepted final Construction Cost Estimate 
                     prepared on completion of the construction documents.

              (v)    At Construction and Contract Administration and Post 
                     Construction Warranty Review:
                     A = the Construction Contract Award Price.

              The total fee is adjusted in accordance with the terms of any 
              authorization pursuant to GC 5.8.

       (b)    Fixed Fee

              The fixed fee may be in the form of a fixed lump sum or an 
              amount made up of fixed unit prices multiplied by a number of 
              units of deliverables in the amount(s) specified in the 
              Agreement Particulars. 
       (c)    Time Based Fee

              (i)    Principals and executives, and other personnel 
                     approved in that capacity by the Departmental 
                     Representative shall be paid at the hourly rate 
                     specified in the Agreement Particulars.

              (ii)   Staff approved by the Departmental Representative 
                     shall be paid at Payroll Cost multiplied by the 
                     factor(s) specified in the Agreement Particulars, 
                     except that the multiplying factor shall not be 
                     applied to the premium portion of authorized overtime 
                     included in Payroll Cost.

              (iii)  Normal Working Hours
                     The normal working hours per day for principals, 
                     executives and Consultant's employees, shall be deemed 
                     to be seven and a half (7.5) hours of any day during 
                     which they are actually engaged in the performance of 
                     the Services.

              (iv)   Travel Time
                     Travel time during normal working hours, that is 
                     related to the Project and authorized by the 
                     Departmental Representative, shall be chargeable as 
                     time worked.

                     Travel time outside normal working hours, that is 
                     related to the Project and authorized by the 
                     Departmental Representative, shall be chargeable up to 
                     a maximum of three (3) hours per day, unless otherwise 
                     authorized.

              (v)    Maximum Amount(s) Payable
                     The maximum amount(s) that applies (apply) to the 
                     Services to be carried out at time rates shall be as 
                     specified in the Agreement Particulars, which amount(s) 
                     shall not be exceeded without the prior authorization 
                     of the Departmental Representative, with the approval 
                     of the Minister.

<strong>GC 5.3 (30/05/03)    Payments to the Consultant</strong>

1.     The Consultant shall be entitled to receive progress payments at 
       monthly or other agreed intervals, subject to the limitations of the 
       Calculation of Fees clause herein, if applicable.  Such payments 
       shall be made prior to or on the due date.  The due date shall be 
       the 30th day following receipt of a properly submitted invoice.

2.     The properly submitted invoice shall be an invoice delivered to the 
       Departmental Representative in the agreed format with sufficient 
       detail and information to permit verification.  The invoice shall 
       also identify, as separate items:

       (a)    the amount of the progress payment being claimed for Services 
              satisfactorily performed,

       (b)    the amount for any tax calculated in accordance with the 
              applicable federal legislation, and

       (c)    the total amount which shall be the sum of the amounts 
              referred to in (a) and (b) above.

3.     The amount of the tax shown on the invoice shall be paid by Canada 
       to the Consultant in addition to the amount of the progress payment 
       for Services satisfactorily performed.

4.     The Departmental Representative shall notify the Consultant within 
       fifteen (15) days after the receipt of an invoice of any error or 
       missing information therein.  Payment shall be made prior to or on 
       the thirtieth (30) day after receipt of the corrected invoice or the 
       required information.

5.     Upon completion of each Service as described elsewhere in the 
       Agreement, provided at least one progress payment has been made, the 
       Consultant shall provide a Statutory Declaration evidencing that all 
       the Consultant's financial obligations for Services rendered to the 
       Consultant or on the Consultant's account, in connection with the 
       Agreement, have been satisfied, before any further payment is made.

6.     Upon written notice by a Sub-Consultant, with whom the Consultant 
       has a direct contract, of an alleged non payment to the 
       Sub-Consultant, the Departmental Representative may provide the 
       Sub-Consultant with a copy of the latest approved progress payment 
       made to the Consultant for the Services.

7.     Upon the satisfactory completion of all Services, the amount due, 
       less any payments already made, shall be paid to the Consultant not 
       later than thirty (30) days after receipt of a properly submitted 
       invoice, together with the Final Statutory Declaration in accordance 
       with subsection 5 above.


<strong>GC 5.4 (30/05/03)    Payments for Services</strong>

1.     Payments in respect of the percentage fee arrangement shall be made 
       during the performance of the Services, on the basis of the fee 
       calculations as described in GC 5.2.1.(a), for each of the Services 
       equal to the amounts specified below:

       (a)    Payment for Analysis of Project Requirements and Design 
              Concept:
              Upon acceptance of the design concept documents, an amount 
              equal to 10 percent of the fee;

       (b)    Payment for Design Development:
              Upon acceptance of the design development documents, an 
              amount equal to 15 percent of the fee;

       (c)    Payment for Construction Documents:
              Upon acceptance of the construction documents, an amount 
              equal to 45 percent of the fee;

       (d)    Payment for Tender Call, Tender Evaluation and Contract Award:
              Upon award of the Construction Contract, or upon completion 
              of tender evaluation(s) in such cases where Canada does not 
              award a Construction Contract for reasons other than those 
              specified in paragraph 6 below, an amount equal to 5 percent 
              of the fee;

       (e)    Payment for Construction and Contract Administration:
              Upon interim completion of the Construction Contract, an 
              amount equal to 22 percent of the fee;

       (f)    Payment for Final Completion and Post Construction Warranty 
              Review:
              Upon reporting to the Departmental Representative on the 
              status of the defects at the end of the warranty period(s) an 
              amount equal to 3 percent of the fee.

2.     Payments in respect of the fixed fee arrangement shall be made upon 
       satisfactory performance of the Services but such payments shall not 
       exceed the amount(s) as specified in the Agreement Particulars, for 
       each Service.

3.     Payments in respect of the time based fee arrangement shall be made 
       upon satisfactory performance of the Services but such payments 
       shall not exceed the amount(s) as specified in the Agreement 
       Particulars, for each Service.

4.     Progress payments, in respect of all fee arrangements, shall be made 
       in accordance with GC 5.3  of the Agreement, but such payments shall 
       not exceed the value of the fee indicated for each Service under 
       consideration.

5.     Progress payments in respect of construction and contract 
       administration for percentage fee or fixed fee arrangements may be 
       made in proportion to the percentage of the construction work 
       completed and approved for payment under the Construction Contract.

6.     If, for reasons attributable to the Consultant, a price cannot be 
       obtained by a tender or negotiation within the Construction Cost 
       Limit, or acceptable to the Departmental Representative for the 
       award of the Construction Contract, the Consultant shall be entitled 
       to receive payment for the tender call, bid evaluation and 
       construction contract award Services, only when the requirements of 
       GC 3.11.3, have been met.

<strong>GC 5.5 (30/05/03)    Delayed Payment</strong>

1.     If Canada delays in making a payment that is due in accordance with 
       GC 5.3, the Consultant will be entitled to receive interest on the 
       amount that is overdue for the period of time as defined in 
       subsection 2 below including the day previous to the date of payment.  
       Such date of payment shall be deemed to be the date on the cheque 
       given for payment of the overdue amount.  An amount is overdue when 
       it is unpaid on the first day following the due date described in GC
        5.3.1.

2.     Interest shall be paid automatically on all amounts that are not 
       paid by the due date or fifteen (15) days after the Consultant has 
       delivered a Statutory Declaration in accordance with GC 5.3.5 or GC 
       5.3.7 whichever is the later.

3.     The rate of interest shall be the Average Bank Rate plus 3 percent 
       per year on any amount which is overdue pursuant to subsection 1 
       above.

<strong>GC 5.6 (30/05/03)    Claims Against, and Obligations of, the Consultant</strong>

1.     Canada may, in order to discharge lawful obligations of and satisfy 
       lawful claims against the Consultant by a Sub-Consultant, with whom 
       the Consultant has a direct contract, for Services rendered to, or 
       on behalf of, the Consultant, pay an amount from money that is due 
       and payable to the Consultant directly to the claimant 
       Sub-Consultant.

2.     For the purposes of subsection 1 a claim shall be considered lawful 
       when it is so determined 

       (a)    by a court of legal jurisdiction, or
       (b)    by an arbitrator duly appointed to arbitrate the said claim, 
              or
       (c)    by a written notice delivered to the Departmental 
              Representative and signed by the Consultant authorizing 
              payment of the said claim or claims.

3.     A payment made pursuant to subsection 1 is, to the extent of the 
       payment, a discharge of Canada's liability to the Consultant under 
       the Agreement and will be deducted from any amount payable to the 
       Consultant under the Agreement.

4.     Subsection 1 shall only apply to claims and obligations 

       (a)    the notification of which has set forth the amount claimed to 
              be owing and a full description of the Services or a part of 
              the Services for which the claimant has not been paid.  The 
              notification must be received by the Departmental 
              Representative in writing before the final payment is made to 
              the Consultant and within one hundred twenty (120) days of 
              the date on which the claimant

              (i)    should have been paid in full under the claimant's 
                     Agreement with the Consultant where the claim is for 
                     an amount that was lawfully required to be held back 
                     from the claimant; or

              (ii)   performed the last of the Services pursuant to the 
                     claimant's Agreement with the Consultant where the 
                     claim is not for an amount referred to in 
                     sub-paragraph 4.(a)(i), and 

       (b)    the proceedings to determine the right to payment of which 
              shall have commenced within one year from the date that the 
              notification referred to in paragraph 4.(a) was received by 
              the Departmental Representative.

5.     Canada may, upon receipt of a notification of claim referred to in 
       paragraph 4.(a), withhold from any amount that is due and payable to 
       the Consultant pursuant to the Agreement the full amount of the 
       claim or any portion thereof.

6.     The Departmental Representative shall notify the Consultant in 
       writing of receipt of any notification of claim and of the intention 
       of Canada to withhold funds pursuant to subsection 5.  The 
       Consultant may, at any time thereafter and until payment is made to 
       the claimant, post with Canada, security in a form acceptable to 
       Canada in an amount equal to the value of the said claim.  Upon 
       receipt of such security Canada shall release to the Consultant any 
       funds which would be otherwise payable to the Consultant, that were 
       withheld pursuant to the provision of subsection 5.

7.     The Consultant shall discharge all lawful obligations and shall 
       satisfy all lawful claims against the Consultant for Services 
       rendered to, or on behalf of, the Consultant in respect of the 
       Agreement at least as often as the Agreement requires Canada to 
       discharge its obligations to the Consultant.

<strong>GC 5.7 (30/05/03)    No Payment for Errors and Omissions</strong>

The Consultant shall not be entitled to payment in respect of costs 
incurred by the Consultant in remedying errors and omissions in the 
Services that are attributable to the Consultant, the Consultant's 
employees, or persons for whom the Consultant had assumed responsibility in 
performing the Services.

<strong>GC 5.8 (30/05/03)    Payment for Changes and Revisions</strong>

1.     Payment for any additional or reduced Services authorized by the 
       Departmental Representative prior to their performance, and for 
       which a basis of payment has not been established at the time of 
       execution of the Agreement, shall be in an amount or amounts to be 
       mutually agreed upon from time to time, subject to these Terms of 
       Payment and the approval of the Minister.  

2.     Where it is not possible, or not appropriate, to agree upon a fixed 
       price fee or percentage fee prior to the performance of the 
       additional or reduced Services, payment shall be made on the basis 
       of a time based fee in accordance with GC 5.2.1.(c).  Disbursements 
       shall be paid in accordance with GC 5.12.

3.     Prior to the performance of additional or reduced Services on the 
       basis of a time based fee, the Consultant shall comply with any 
       request made by the Departmental Representative pursuant to GC 3.8, 
       regarding persons to be employed by the Consultant or the 
       Consultant's subconsultants to provide the additional or reduced 
       Services.  In addition, the Consultant and the Departmental 
       Representative shall negotiate hourly rates and payroll cost factors 
       as applicable for any of those persons for whom the relevant 
       information does not appear in the Agreement Particulars.

4.     Payment for additional Services not identified at the time of 
       execution of the Agreement shall be made only to the extent that

       (a)    the additional Services are Services that are not included in 
              stated Services in the Agreement,

       (b)    the additional Services are required for reasons beyond the 
              control of the Consultant, and

       (c)    any fee adjustment for Services resulting from an adjustment 
              in the Construction Cost Estimate arising from the additional 
              Services is not commensurate with the additional Services 
              performed.

<strong>GC 5.9 (30/05/03)    Extension of Time</strong>

If, and to the extent that, the time for completion of the Construction 
Contract is exceeded or extended through no fault of the Consultant in the 
opinion of Canada, payment for the Services required for such extended 
period of the contract administration shall be subject to review and 
equitable adjustment.

<strong>GC 5.10       (30/05/03)    Suspension Costs</strong>

1.     During a period of suspension of the Services pursuant to GC 7.2, 
       the Consultant shall minimize all costs and expenses relating to the 
       Services that may occur during the suspension period.

2.     Within fourteen (14) days of notice of such suspension, the 
       Consultant shall submit to the Departmental Representative a 
       schedule of costs and expenses, if any, that the Consultant expects 
       to incur during the period of suspension, and for which the 
       Consultant will request reimbursement.

3.     Payment shall be made to the Consultant for those costs and expenses 
       that, in the opinion of Canada, are substantiated as having been 
       reasonably incurred during the suspension period.

<strong>GC 5.11       (30/05/03)    Termination Costs</strong>

1.     In the event of termination of the Agreement pursuant to GC 7.3, 
       Canada shall pay, and the Consultant shall accept in full settlement, 
       an amount based on these Terms of Payment, for Services 
       satisfactorily performed, plus an amount to compensate the 
       Consultant for reasonable costs and expenses, if any, that are 
       related to the Services not performed and incurred after the date of 
       termination.

2.     Within fourteen (14) days of notice of such termination, the 
       Consultant shall submit to the Departmental Representative a 
       schedule of costs and expenses incurred plus any additional costs 
       that the Consultant expects to incur after the date of termination, 
       and for which the Consultant will request reimbursement.

3.     Payment shall be made to the Consultant for those costs and expenses 
       that in the opinion of Canada are substantiated as having been 
       reasonably incurred after the date of termination.

<strong>GC 5.12       (30/05/03)    Disbursements</strong>

1.     Subject to any provisions specifically to the contrary in the 
       Supplementary Conditions, the following costs shall be included in 
       the fees required to deliver the consultant services and shall not 
       be reimbursed separately;

       (a)    reproduction and delivery costs of drawings, CADD files, 
              specifications and other Technical Documentation specified in 
              the Project Brief;

       (b)    standard office expenses such as any photocopying, computer 
              costs, Internet, cellular phone costs, long distance 
              telephone and fax costs, including that between the 
              Consultant's main office and branch offices or between the 
              Consultant's offices and other team members offices;

       (c)    courier and delivery charges for deliverables specified in 
              the Project Brief;

       (d)    plotting;

       (e)    presentation material;

       (f)    parking fees;

       (g)    taxi charges;

       (h)    travel time;

       (i)    travel expenses; and

       (j)    local project office.

2.     Subject to any provisions specifically to the contrary in the 
       Supplementary Conditions, the following disbursements reasonably 
       incurred by the Consultant, that are related to the Services and 
       approved by the Departmental Representative, shall be reimbursed to 
       the Consultant at actual cost:

       (a)    reproduction and delivery costs of drawings, CADD files, 
              specifications and other Technical Documentation additional 
              to that specified in the Project Brief;

       (b)    transportation costs for material samples and models 
              additional to that specified in the Project Brief;

       (c)    project related travel and accommodation additional to that 
              specified in the Project Brief shall be reimbursed in 
              accordance with current Treasury Board Travel Policy; and

       (d)    other disbursements made with the prior approval and 
              authorization of the Departmental Representative.

3.     Disbursements shall be Project related and shall not include 
       expenses that are related to the normal operation of the Consultant' 
       business.  The amounts payable, shall not exceed the amount entered 
       in the Agreement Particulars, without the prior authorization of the 
       Departmental Representative.

<strong>GC 5.13       (30/05/03)    T1204 Government Service Contract Payments</strong>

Pursuant to paragraph 221 (1)(d) of the <em>Income Tax Act</em>, payments made by 
departments and agencies to consultants under applicable services contracts 
(including contracts involving a mix of goods and services) must be 
reported on a T1204 Government Service Contract Payments slip.  To enable 
departments and agencies to comply with this requirement, the Consultant is 
required to provide its Procurement Business Number (PBN).  The Consultant 
is to ensure the accuracy of its PBN information in the Supplier 
Registration Information System. 

</pre>