<pre><strong>GC3.1  Material, Plant, and Real Property Become the Property of Canada</strong>

1.     All Material and Plant used or consumed for the purposes of the Work 
       shall be the property of Canada.  The Material and Plant shall be 
       used only for the purposes of the Work, and shall not be removed 
       from the site of the Work until so approved by the Departmental 
       Representative.

2.     The Contractor shall be liable for all loss or damage to Material or 
       Plant that is the property of Canada by virtue of this section.

<strong>GC 3.2 Cooperation with Other Contractors</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall cooperate fully with other contractors or 
       workers sent onto the site of the Work by the Departmental 
       Representative.

2.     If, at the time the Contract was executed, the Contractor could not 
       have reasonably foreseen the sending of other contractors or workers 
       onto the site of the Work, and

       (a)    the Contractor incurs extra costs in complying with 
              subsection 1 of GC 3.2; and

       (b)    the Contractor gives written notice of claim for the extra 
              costs within ten (10) days from the date upon which the other 
              contractors or workers were sent onto the site of the Work;

       Canada shall pay an additional amount to the Contractor, calculated 
       pursuant to GC 5.9.

<strong>GC 3.3 Use of the Work and Cleanup of Site</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall maintain the site of the Work in a tidy 
       condition and free from the accumulation of waste material 
       throughout the duration of the Contract.

2.     Before the Departmental Representative issues the Final Certificate 
       of Completion or approves payment of the final invoice, the 
       Contractor shall remove all materials, tools, construction machinery, 
       equipment, waste products and debris from the site of the Work.

3.     Where the Work affects occupied portions of a building, the 
       Contractor shall ensure continuity of all building services and 
       shall ensure safe access for all persons requiring access to said 
       the building.

4.     Without restricting any warranty or guarantee implied or imposed by 
       law or any extended warranty specified in the Contract, the 
       Contractor shall, upon notice from the Departmental Representative 
       and at its own expense, rectify all defects which appear in the Work 
       within twelve (12) months from the date of issuance of the Final 
       Certificate of Completion if one is issued pursuant to subsection 1 
       of GC 5.3, or from the date of the negotiable instrument issued as 
       final payment if a Final Certificate of Completion is not issued, 
       whichever is applicable.

5.     The notice referred to in subsection 4 of GC 3.3 shall be in writing 
       and shall include the number of days within which the defect or 
       fault is to be rectified.

6.     The Contractor shall transfer and assign, to Canada, any 
       subcontractor, manufacturer or supplier extended warranties or 
       guarantees implied or imposed by law or contained in the contract 
       documents covering periods beyond the twelve (12) months stipulated 
       above.  Extended warranties or guarantees referred to herein shall 
       not extend the twelve (12) month period whereby the Contractor must 
       rectify and make good any defect or fault that appears in the work 
       or comes to the attention of the Minister.

7.     The Contractor shall provide to the Departmental Representative 
       prior to the issuance of the Final Certificate of Completion, a list 
       of all extended warranties and guarantees referred to in subsection 
       6 of GC 3.3.

</pre>