<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

DR 01  Interpretation
DR 02  Consultation and Co-operation
DR 03  Authority of Engineer
DR 04  Negotiation
DR 05  Mediation
DR 06  Binding Arbitration
DR 07  Disputes Not Subject to Arbitration
DR 08  Confidentiality
DR 09  Settlement


<strong>DR 01  (13/12/02)    Interpretation</strong>

1.1    In these Dispute Resolution Conditions and in the Rules attached 
       hereto, "arbitral question of law" means a question of law that:

       1.1.1  is capable of determination by arbitration under the laws of 
                     Canada, and

       1.1.2  does not involve interpretation or application of public law 
              of Canada, including without limitation any matter of 
              constitutional, administrative, criminal or tax law, and

       1.1.3  concerns: 

              1.1.3.1       the formation, validity, interpretation, 
                     application or enforce ability of the contract;

              1.1.3.2       the performance, breach, termination or other 
                     discharge of the contract;

              1.1.3.3       the rights, duties, obligations or remedies of 
                     parties created by or pursuant to the contract; or

              1.1.3.4       any other issue of private law that may arise 
                     between parties relative to performance of the 
                     contract;

       "dispute" means any disagreement regarding any issue identified by 
       the Contractor in the notice submitted to the Engineer in accordance 
       with DR 3.2, and includes any claim by the Contractor arising from 
       such disagreement and any counterclaim by Her Majesty, but does not 
       include any claim by either party for punitive or exemplary damages, 
       injury to persons, death, or any claim based on an allegation of 
       libel or slander;

       "working day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or a 
       holiday which is observed by the construction industry in the area 
       of the place of the work.

1.2    The alternative dispute resolution procedures set out in these 
       Dispute Resolution Conditions do not apply to any claim by Her 
       Majesty against the Contractor except any counterclaim in a dispute 
       as defined in this DR 01 Interpretation, including, but not limited 
       to, any claim of set off regarding any amount due to Her Majesty 
       under GC37 of the General Conditions.

<strong>DR 02  (13/12/02)    Consultation and Co-operation</strong>

2.1    The parties agree to maintain open and honest communication 
       throughout the performance of the contract.

2.2    The parties agree to consult and cooperate with each other in the 
       furtherance of the work and the resolution of problems or 
       differences which may arise.

<strong>DR 03  (13/12/02)    Authority of Engineer</strong>

3.1    Any difference between the parties to the contract of any nature 
       arising out of or in connection with the contract which could result 
       in a claim by the Contractor against Her Majesty, and which is not 
       settled by consultation and cooperation as envisaged in DR 02 
       Consultation and Co-
operation, shall be resolved in the first instance by the Engineer, whose 
written decision or direction shall be final and binding subject only to 
the provisions of these Dispute Resolution Conditions "G."  Such written 
decision or direction includes, but is not limited to, any written decision 
or direction by the Engineer under any provision of the General Conditions.

3.2    The Contractor shall be deemed to have accepted the decision or 
       direction of the Engineer referred to in DR 3.1 and to have 
       expressly waived and released Her Majesty from any claim in respect 
       of the particular matter dealt within that decision or direction 
       unless, within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the 
       decision or direction, the Contractor submits to the Engineer a 
       written notice of dispute requesting formal negotiation under DR 04 
       Negotiation.  Such notice shall refer specifically to DR 04 
       Negotiation and shall specify the issues in contention and the 
       relevant provisions of the contract.

3.3    The giving of a written notice in accordance with DR 3.2 shall not 
       relieve the Contractor from complying with the decision or direction 
       that is the subject of the dispute.  Such compliance, however, shall 
       not be construed as an admission by the Contractor of the 
       correctness of such decision or direction. 

3.4    If a dispute is not resolved promptly, the Engineer shall give such 
       instructions as, in the Engineer's opinion, are necessary for the 
       proper performance of the work and to prevent delays pending a 
       resolution of the matter.  Unless the Minister terminates the 
       contract, orders the Contractor to suspend the work, or takes the 
       work out of the hands of the Contractor, the Contractor shall 
       continue to perform the work in accordance with the provisions and 
       requirements of the contract and the instructions of the Engineer.  
       Such performance shall not prejudice any claim that the Contractor 
       may have.

3.5    Nothing in these Dispute Resolution Conditions relieves the 
       Contractor from its obligation to provide any other notice required 
       by the Contract within the time specified in the Contract, including, 
       but not limited to, any notice required under GC35 of the General 
       Conditions. 

<strong>DR 04  (13/12/02)    Negotiation</strong>

4.1    Within ten (10) working days after receipt by the Engineer of a 
       notice referred to in DR 3.2, or within such other period of time as 
       may be mutually agreed to, the parties shall commence formal 
       negotiations in order to resolve the dispute.  Negotiations shall 
       occur initially between representatives of the Contractor and Her 
       Majesty who play a direct supervisory role in the performance or 
       management of the contract.

4.2    If the representatives referred to in DR 4.1 are unable to resolve 
       some or all of the issues which are the subject of the negotiations 
       within ten (10) working days, the parties shall refer the remaining 
       issues which are in dispute to a second level of negotiation between 
       a principal or principals of the Contractor and a senior level 
       manager or senior level managers representing Her Majesty.
 
4.3    If negotiations fail to resolve the dispute within thirty (30) 
       working days from the date of delivery of the notice referred to in 
       DR 3.2, or within such longer period as may have been agreed to by 
       the parties, the Contractor may, by giving written notice to the 
       Engineer, in accordance with GC11 of the General Conditions, within 
       ten (10) working days from the end of such period, request that 
       mediation be undertaken to assist the parties to reach agreement on 
       the outstanding issues.

4.4    If the Contractor does not request mediation within the period 
       permitted by DR 4.3, the Contractor shall be deemed to have accepted 
       the decision or direction of the Engineer under DR 3.1 and to have 
       expressly waived and released Her Majesty from any claim in respect 
       of the particular matter dealt within that decision or direction.

<strong>DR 05  (13/12/02)    Mediation</strong>

5.1    If the Contractor has requested mediation in accordance with DR 4.3, 
       mediation shall be conducted in accordance with the current issue of 
       the Public Works and Government Services Canada rules for mediation 
       of construction contract disputes attached hereto as Dispute 
       Resolution  Rules for Mediation (Construction Contract).

5.2    If a Project Mediator has not previously been appointed for the 
       purposes of the contract, a Project Mediator shall be appointed in 
       accordance with Dispute Resolution  Rules for Mediation forthwith 
       after delivery of a notice in accordance with DR 4.3 requesting 
       mediation.

5.3    If the dispute has not been resolved within 

       5.3.1  ten (10) working days following the appointment of a Project 
              Mediator in accordance with DR 5.2, if a Project Mediator was 
              not previously appointed, or 

       5.3.2  ten (10) working days following receipt by the Engineer of a 
              written notice in accordance with DR 4.3, if a Project 
              Mediator was previously appointed, or 

       5.3.3  such other longer period as may have been agreed to by the 
              parties, 

       the Project Mediator shall terminate the mediation by giving written 
       notice to the parties stating the effective date of termination.

<strong>DR 06  (13/12/02)    Binding Arbitration</strong>

6.1    If mediation of the dispute is terminated pursuant to the provisions 
       of DR 05 Mediation, and

       6.1.1  the termination of mediation occurs prior to the applicable 
              date set out in DR 6.4, and

       6.1.2  the disputed issues involve issues of fact or issues of 
              arbitral questions of law or issues of mixed fact and 
              arbitral questions of law, 

       either party, by giving notice in writing to the other party in 
       accordance with GC11of the General Conditions, may require that the 
       dispute be resolved by binding arbitration pursuant to this DR 06 
       Binding Arbitration. 

6.2    A notice referred to in DR 6.1 shall be given within ten (10) 
       working days of the date of termination of mediation under DR 05 
       Mediation.  If delivered personally, a notice to the Contractor 
       shall be delivered to the Contractor if the Contractor is doing 
       business as a sole proprietor or, if the Contractor is a partnership 
       or corporation, to an officer thereof.

6.3    If no notice is given within the period set out in DR 6.2, or if the 
       conditions set out in DR 6.1.1 and DR 6.1.2 are not met, the 
       arbitration provisions set out in this DR 06 Binding Arbitration do 
       not apply to the dispute.

6.4    Unless otherwise agreed, the arbitration of the dispute shall be 
       held in abeyance until the earlier of

       6.4.1  the date of issuance of an Interim Certificate of Completion 
              under GC44.2 of the General Conditions,

       6.4.2  the date the work is taken out of the Contractor's hands,

       6.4.3  the date of termination of the contract,

       and consolidated with all other such disputes into a single 
arbitration.

6.5    Arbitral proceedings under this DR 06 Binding Arbitration shall be 
       governed by and conducted in accordance with the Commercial 
       Arbitration Act, R.S.C. 1985, c.17 (2nd Supp.) and the provisions of  
       the Public Works and Government Services Canada rules for 
       arbitration of construction contract disputes attached hereto as 
       Dispute Resolution  Rules for Arbitration (Construction Contract).

6.6    For the purposes of calculating time under the Rules for Arbitration 
       referred toinDR6.5, arbitration proceedings shall commence on the 
       applicable date set out in DR 6.4. 

6.7    Notwithstanding anything else contained in this DR 06 Binding 
       Arbitration, the arbitration provisions in this DR 6 do not apply if 
       the aggregate amount of all claims by the Contractor required to be 
       arbitrated on the applicable date set out in DR 6.4 is less than $25,000.

<strong>DR 07  (13/12/02)    Disputes Not Subject to Arbitration</strong>

7.1    Where the arbitration provisions in DR 06 Binding Arbitration do not 
       apply to a dispute as a result of DR 6.3 or DR 6.7, either party may 
       take such court action or proceedings as it considers appropriate, 
       including, without limiting the foregoing, all suits that would 
       other wise have been immediately available to it but for the 
       provisions of these Dispute Resolution Conditions.  Subject to the 
       provisions of DR 7.2, the Contractor shall initiate any such action 
       or proceeding no later than three calendar months after the date 
       that a Final Certificate of Completion is issued under GC44.1 of the 
       General Conditions and not afterwards.

7.2    Any action or proceeding resulting from a direction under GC32 of 
       the General Conditions shall be initiated by the Contractor no later 
       than three calendar months after the expiry of the warranty or 
       guarantee period and not afterwards.

<strong>DR 08  (13/12/02)    Confidentiality</strong>

8.1    All information exchanged during alternative dispute resolution 
       procedures, by whatever means, shall be without prejudice and shall 
       be treated as confidential by the parties and their representatives, 
       unless otherwise required by law. However, evidence that is 
       independently admissible or discoverable shall not be rendered 
       inadmissible or non-discoverable by virtue of its use during an 
       alternative dispute resolution process.

<strong>DR 09  (13/12/02)    Settlement</strong>

9.1    Any agreement to settle all or any part of a dispute, by whatever 
       means, shall be in writing and be signed by the parties or their 
       authorized representatives.

</pre>