<pre>1.     The Contractor must keep records of its employees up to date and 
       provide, within seven (7) days following a request from the 
       Contracting Authority, the following information for each employee 
       as provided for in section 77(2) of the <em>Employment Standards Act</em>, 
       2000, S.O. 2000, c. 41, and in Ontario Regulation 287/01:

       (a)    the employee's name, residential address and telephone number;

       (b)    the employee's job classification or job description;

       (c)    the wage rate actually paid to the employee;

       (d)    a description of the benefits, if any, provided to the 
              employee including the cost of each benefit and the benefit 
              period to which the cost relates;

       (e)    the number of hours that the employee works in a regular work 
              day and in a regular work week, or if the employee's hours of 
              work vary from week to week, the number of the employee's 
              non-overtime hours for each week that the employee worked 
              during the thirteen (13) weeks before the date of the request 
              for information;

       (f)    the date on which the employer hired the employee;

       (g)    any period of employment attributed to the employer under 
              section 10 of the Act;

       (h)    the number of weeks that the employee worked at the premises 
              during the twenty-six (26) weeks before the request date.  
              The 26-week period must be calculated without including any 
              period during which the provision of services at the premises 
              was temporarily discontinued, or during which the employee 
              was on leave of absence under Part XIV of the Act;

       (i)    a statement indicating whether either of the following 
              subparagraphs applies to the employee

              (i)    The employee's work, before the request date, included 
                     the provision of services at the premises, but the 
                     employee did not perform his or her job duties 
                     primarily at those premises during the thirteen (13) 
                     weeks before the request date.

              (ii)   The employee's work included the provision of services 
                     at the premises, but the employee was not actively at 
                     work immediately before the request date, and did not 
                     perform his or her job duties primarily at the 
                     premises during the most recent thirteen (13) weeks of 
                     active employment.

2.     In addition to the above information, the Contractor must provide, 
       within seven (7) days following a request from the Contracting 
       Authority, an up-to-date copy of the collective agreement regarding 
       the employees at the premises or, if no collective agreement exists 
       for these premises, a copy of the union certificate regarding these 
       employees or, if no union certificate was issued, a copy of any 
       pending union application if it exists.

3.     The Contractor must immediately provide the Contracting Authority 
       with updated information if changes occur between the date the 
       information requested by the Contracting Authority is provided and 
       the expiry date of the Contract.

4.     The Contracting officer will provide the information described above, 
       with the exception of 1.(a) to potentiel bidders for a future 
       contract for those services relating to the premises.



</pre>