<pre><strong>GC5.1  (2003-05-30)  Fees</strong>

1.     Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, and in 
       consideration for the performance of the Services, Canada shall pay 
       to the Consultant a sum of money calculated in accordance with the 
       provisions herein.

2.     The Consultant's fees are only payable when the Consultant has 
       performed the Services as determined by the Departmental 
       Representative.  Payment in respect of a Service, or part of a 
       Service, is not to be deemed a waiver of Canada's rights of set-off 
       at law or under the Agreement for costs or expenses arising from 
       default or negligence of the Consultant.

3.     The maximum amount payable under the Agreement, including fees and 
       disbursements, shall not exceed the sum specified in the Agreement 
       Particulars, without the prior written authorization of the 
       Departmental Representative in accordance with the terms of the 
       Agreement.

<strong>GC5.2  (2003-05-30)  Fee Arrangement(s) for Services</strong>

1.     The fees and disbursements are only payable when the Consultant has 
       performed the Services in accordance with the Commitment for 
       Services.

2.     Canada shall pay to the Consultant as consideration for the 
       execution of the Services described in the Commitment for Services a 
       sum of money calculated by one or several of the following methods 
       which shall be specified in the Commitment for Services documents:

       (a)    Percentage Fee
              A fee calculated as an agreed percentage of the approved 
              Construction Cost Estimate payable as described in the 
              Commitment for Services.

       (b)    Fixed Fee
              An agreed fixed fee being the total amount payable for 
              Services rendered pursuant to the Commitment for Services.

       (c)    Time Based Fee

              (i)    Principals and executives, and other personnel 
                     approved in that capacity by the Departmental 
                     Representative shall be paid at the hourly rate 
                     specified in the Commitment for Services;

              (ii)   Staff approved by the Departmental Representative 
                     shall be paid at Payroll Cost multiplied by the factor 
                     (s) specified in the Commitment for Services, except 
                     that the multiplying factor shall not be applied to 
                     the premium portion of authorized  overtime included 
                     in Payroll Cost;

              (iii)  Normal Working Hours
                     The normal working hours per day for principals, 
                     executives and Consultant's employees, shall be deemed 
                     to be seven and a half (7.5) hours of any day during 
                     which they are actually engaged  in the performance of 
                     the Services;

              (iv)   Travel Time
                     Travel time during normal working hours, that is 
                     related to the Project and authorized by the 
                     Departmental Representative, shall be chargeable as 
                     time worked.  Travel time outside normal working hours, 
                     that is related to the Project and authorized by the 
                     Departmental Representative, shall be chargeable up to 
                     a maximum of three (3) hours per day, unless otherwise 
                     authorized;

              (v)    Maximum Amount(s) Payable 
                     The maximum amount(s) that applies (apply) to the 
                     Services to be carried out at time rates shall be as 
                     specified in the Commitment for Services, which 
                     amount(s) shall not be exceeded without the prior 
                     authorization for the Departmental Representative.

<strong>GC5.3  (2003-05-30)  Payments to the Consultant</strong>

1.     The Consultant shall be entitled to receive progress payments at 
       monthly or other agreed intervals, subject to the limitations of the 
       Calculation of Fees clause herein, if applicable.  Such payments 
       shall be made prior to or on the due date.  The due date shall be 
       the 30th day following receipt of a properly submitted invoice.

2.     The properly submitted invoice shall be an invoice delivered to the 
       Departmental Representative in the agreed format with sufficient 
       detail and information to permit verification.  The invoice shall 
       also identify, as separate items:

       (a)    the amount of the progress payment being claimed for Services 
              satisfactorily performed,

       (b)    the amount for any tax calculated in accordance with the 
              applicable federal legislation, and

       (c)    the total amount which shall be the sum of the amounts 
              referred to in (a) and (b) above.

3.     The amount of the tax shown on the invoice shall be paid by Canada 
       to the Consultant in addition to the amount of the progress payment 
       for Services satisfactorily performed.

4.     The Departmental Representative shall notify the Consultant within 
       fifteen (15) days after the receipt of an invoice of any error or 
       missing information therein.  Payment shall be made prior to or on 
       the thirtieth (30) day after receipt of the corrected invoice or the 
       required information.

5.     Upon completion of each Service as described elsewhere in the 
       Agreement, provided at least one progress payment has been made, the 
       Consultant shall provide a Statutory Declaration evidencing that all 
       the Consultant's financial obligations for Services rendered to the 
       Consultant or on the Consultant's account, in connection with the 
       Agreement, have been satisfied, before any further payment is made.

6.     Upon written notice by a Sub-Consultant, with whom the Consultant 
       has a direct contract, of an alleged non payment to the 
       Sub-Consultant, the Departmental Representative may provide the 
       Sub-Consultant with a copy of the latest approved progress payment 
       made to the Consultant for the Services.

7.     Upon the satisfactory completion of all Services, the amount due, 
       less any payments already made, shall be paid to the Consultant not 
       later than thirty (30) days after receipt of a properly submitted 
       invoice, together with the Final Statutory Declaration in accordance 
       with paragraph 5 above.

<strong>GC5.4  (2003-05-30)  Delayed Payment</strong>

1.     If Canada delays in making a payment that is due in accordance with 
       GC5.3, the Consultant will be entitled to receive interest on the 
       amount that is overdue for the period of time as defined in 
       paragraph 2 below including the day previous to the date of payment.  
       Such date of payment shall be deemed to be the date on the cheque 
       given for payment of the overdue amount.  An amount is overdue when 
       it is unpaid on the first day following the due date described in 
       GC5.3.1.

2.     Interest shall be paid automatically on all amounts that are not 
       paid by the due date or fifteen (15) days after the Consultant has 
       delivered a Statutory Declaration in accordance with GC5.3.5 or GC5.3.7 
       whichever is the later.

3.     The rate of interest shall be the Average Bank Rate plus 3 percent 
       per year on any amount which is overdue pursuant to paragraph 1 
       above.

<strong>GC5.5  (2003-05-30)  Claims Against, and Obligations of, the Consultant</strong>

1.     Canada may, in order to discharge lawful obligations of and satisfy 
       lawful claims against the Consultant by a Sub-Consultant, with whom 
       the Consultant has a direct contract, for Services rendered to, or 
       on behalf of, the Consultant, pay an amount from money that is due 
       and payable to the Consultant directly to the claimant 
       Sub-Consultant.

2.     For the purposes of paragraph 1 a claim shall be considered lawful 
       when it is so determined 

       (a)    by a court of legal jurisdiction, or
       (b)    by an arbitrator duly appointed to arbitrate the said claim, 
              or
       (c)    by a written notice delivered to the Departmental 
              Representative and signed by the Consultant authorizing 
              payment of the said claim or claims.

3.     A payment made pursuant to paragraph 1. is, to the extent of the 
       payment, a discharge of Canada's liability to the Consultant under 
       the Agreement and will be deducted from any amount payable to the 
       Consultant under the Agreement.

4.     Paragraph 1 shall only apply to claims and obligations 

       (a)    the notification of which has set forth the amount claimed to 
              be owing and a full description of the Services or a part of 
              the Services for which the claimant has not been paid.  The 
              notification must be received by the Departmental 
              Representative in writing before the final payment is made to 
              the Consultant and within one hundred twenty (120) days of 
              the date on which the claimant

              (i)    should have been paid in full under the claimant's 
                     Agreement with the Consultant where the claim is for 
                     an amount that was lawfully required to be held back 
                     from the claimant; or

              (ii)   performed the last of the Services pursuant to the 
                     claimant's Agreement with the Consultant where the 
                     claim is not for an amount referred to in paragraph 4.(
                     a)(i), and

       (b)    the proceedings to determine the right to payment of which 
              shall have commenced within one year from the date that the 
              notification referred to in paragraph 4.(a) was received by 
              the Departmental Representative.

5.     Canada may, upon receipt of a notification of claim referred to in 
       paragraph 4.(a), withhold from any amount that is due and payable to 
       the Consultant pursuant to the Agreement the full amount of the 
       claim or any portion thereof.

6.     The Departmental Representative shall notify the Consultant in 
       writing of receipt of any notification of claim and of the intention 
       of Canada to withhold funds pursuant to paragraph 5.  The Consultant 
       may, at any time thereafter and until payment is made to the 
       claimant, post with Canada, security in a form acceptable to Canada 
       in an amount equal to the value of the said claim.  Upon receipt of 
       such security Canada shall release to the Consultant any funds which 
       would be otherwise payable to the Consultant, that were withheld 
       pursuant to the provision of paragraph 5.

7.     The Consultant shall discharge all lawful obligations and shall 
       satisfy all lawful claims against the Consultant for Services 
       rendered to, or on behalf of, the Consultant in respect of the 
       Agreement at least as often as the Agreement requires Canada to 
       discharge its obligations to the Consultant.

<strong>GC5.6  (2003-05-30)  No Payment for Errors and Omissions</strong>

The Consultant shall not be entitled to payment in respect of costs 
incurred by the Consultant in remedying errors and omissions in the 
Services that are attributable to the Consultant, the Consultant's 
employees, or persons for whom the Consultant had assumed responsibility in 
performing the Services.

<strong>GC5.7  (2007-05-25)  Payment for Changes and Revisions</strong>

1.     Payment for any additional or reduced Services authorized by the 
       Departmental Representative prior to their performance, and for 
       which a basis of payment has not been established at the time of 
       execution of the Agreement, shall be in an amount or amounts to be 
       mutually agreed upon from time to time, subject to these Terms of 
       Payment and the approval of the Minister.

2.     Where it is not possible, or not appropriate, to agree upon a fixed 
       price fee or percentage fee prior to the performance of the 
       additional or reduced Services, payment shall be made on the basis 
       of a time based fee in accordance with GC5.2.2.(c).  Disbursements 
       shall be paid in accordance with GC5.11.

3.     Prior to the performance of additional or reduced Services on the 
       basis of a time based fee, the Consultant shall comply with any 
       request made by the Departmental Representative pursuant to GC 3.8, 
       regarding persons to be employed by the Consultant or the 
       Consultant's sub consultants to provide the additional or reduced 
       Services.  In addition, the Consultant and the Departmental 
       Representative shall negotiate hourly rates and payroll cost factors 
       as applicable for any of those persons for whom the relevant 
       information does not appear in the Agreement Particulars.

4.     Payment for additional Services not identified at the time of 
       execution of the Agreement shall be made only to the extent that

       (a)    the additional Services are Services that are not included in 
              stated Services in the Agreement,

       (b)    the additional Services are required for reasons beyond the 
              control of the Consultant, and

       (c)    any fee adjustment for Services resulting from an adjustment 
              in the Construction Cost Estimate arising from the additional 
              Services is not commensurate with the additional Services 
              performed.

<strong>GC5.8  (2003-05-30)  Extension of Time</strong>

If, and to the extent that, the time for completion of the Construction 
Contract is exceeded or extended through no fault of the Consultant in the 
opinion of Canada, payment for the Services required for such extended 
period of the contract administration shall be subject to review and 
equitable adjustment.

<strong>GC5.9  (2003-05-30)  Suspension Costs</strong>

1.     During a period of suspension of the Services pursuant to GC7.2, the 
       Consultant shall minimize all costs and expenses relating to the 
       Services that may occur during the suspension period.

2.     Within fourteen (14) days of notice of such suspension, the 
       Consultant shall submit to the Departmental Representative a 
       schedule of costs and expenses, if any, that the Consultant expects 
       to incur during the period of suspension, and for which the 
       Consultant will request reimbursement.

3.     Payment shall be made to the Consultant for those costs and expenses 
       that, in the opinion of Canada, are substantiated as having been 
       reasonably incurred during the suspension period.

<strong>GC5.10 (2003-05-30)  Termination Costs</strong>

1.     In the event of termination of the Agreement pursuant to GC7.3, 
       Canada shall pay, and the Consultant shall accept in full settlement, 
       an amount based on these Terms of Payment, for Services 
       satisfactorily performed, plus an amount to compensate the 
       Consultant for reasonable costs and expenses, if any, that are 
       related to the Services not performed and incurred after the date of 
       termination.

2.     Within fourteen (14) days of notice of such termination, the 
       Consultant shall submit to the Departmental Representative a 
       schedule of costs and expenses incurred plus any additional costs 
       that the Consultant expects to incur after the date of termination, 
       and for which the Consultant will request reimbursement.

3.     Payment shall be made to the Consultant for those costs and expenses 
       that in the opinion of Canada are substantiated as having been 
       reasonably incurred after the date of termination.

<strong>GC5.11 (2003-05-30)  Disbursements</strong>

1.     Subject to any provisions specifically to the contrary in the 
       Supplementary Conditions, the following costs shall be included in 
       the fees required to deliver the consultant services and shall not 
       be reimbursed separately;

       (a)    reproduction and delivery costs of drawings, CADD files, 
              specifications and other Technical Documentation specified in 
              the Project Brief;
 
       (b)    standard office expenses such as any photocopying, computer 
              costs, Internet, cellular phone costs, long distance 
              telephone and fax costs, including that between the 
              Consultant's main office and branch offices or between the 
              Consultant's offices and other team members offices;

       (c)    courier and delivery charges for deliverables specified in 
              the Project Brief;

       (d)    plotting;

       (e)    presentation material;

       (f)    parking fees;

       (g)    taxi charges;

       (h)    travel time;

       (i)    travel expenses; and

       (j)    local project office.

2.     Subject to any provisions specifically to the contrary in the 
       Supplementary Conditions, the following disbursements reasonably 
       incurred by the Consultant, that are related to the Services and 
       approved by the Departmental Representative, shall be reimbursed to 
       the Consultant at actual cost:

       (a)    reproduction and delivery costs of drawings, CADD files, 
              specifications and other Technical Documentation additional 
              to that specified in the Project Brief;

       (b)    transportation costs for material samples and models 
              additional to that specified in the Project Brief;

       (c)    project related travel and accommodation additional to that 
              specified in the Project Brief shall be reimbursed in 
              accordance with current Treasury Board Travel Policy; and

       (d)    other disbursements made with the prior approval and 
              authorization of the Departmental Representative.

3.     Disbursements shall be Project related and shall not include 
       expenses that are related to the normal operation of the Consultant'
       s business.  The amounts payable, shall not exceed the amount 
       entered in the Agreement Particulars, without the prior 
       authorization of the Departmental Representative.

<strong>GC5.12 (2003-05-30)  T1204 Government Service Contract Payments</strong>

Pursuant to paragraph 221 (1)(d) of the <em>Income Tax Act</em>, payments made by 
   departments and agencies to consultants under applicable services 
   contracts (including contracts involving a mix of goods and services) 
   must be reported on a T1204 Government Service Contract Payments slip.  
   To enable departments and agencies to comply with this requirement, the 
   Consultant is required to provide its Procurement Business Number (PBN).  
   The Consultant is to ensure the accuracy of its PBN information in the 
   Supplier Registration Information service.
</pre>