<pre><strong>A.     INSTRUCTIONS</strong>

<strong>1.     Method of Supply</strong>

       One method of supply used by the Department of Public Works and 
       Government Services (DPWGS) to satisfy the requirements of 
       identified users is to arrange with offerors to submit a Standing 
       Offer to provide goods, services, or both, to the federal government 
       during a specified period. The identified users to be served are 
       then delegated purchasing authority by DPWGS and may access the 
       source of supply directly, as and when requested, by issuing 
       call-ups detailing the exact quantities of goods or level of 
       services they wish to order from the Offeror at a particular time 
       during the effective period of the Offeror's offer and in accordance 
       with the predetermined conditions.

<strong>2.     Purpose of the Standing Offer</strong>

       This method of supply is particularly useful in acquiring frequently 
       ordered commercially and non-commercially available goods or 
       services when the total volume or value of goods or level of 
       services that may be required by one or more identified users can be 
       estimated beforehand, but it is not possible at the outset to 
       identify the exact requirements for any given user at a specific 
       time in the future.

       Inasmuch as DPWGS, during the period stated in the Request for a 
       Standing Offer (RFSO), foresees a potential need for goods or 
       services, or both, the Offeror is hereby invited to provide DPWGS 
       with a Standing Offer.

<strong>3.     Quantity</strong>

       The quantity of goods, level of services and estimated expenditure 
       specified in the RFSO are only an approximation of requirements 
       given in good faith. The making of a Standing Offer by the Offeror 
       shall not constitute an agreement by Canada or any Identified User 
       to order any or all of the said goods or services. The Identified 
       User may make one or several call-ups against a Standing Offer.

<strong>4.     DPWGS Obligation</strong>

       A request does not commit DPWGS to authorize the utilization of a 
       Standing Offer or to pay any cost incurred in the submission of 
       offers, or cost incurred in making necessary studies for the 
       preparation thereof, or to procure or contract for any services  or 
       supplies. DPWGS reserves the right to reject or authorize for 
       utilization any offer in whole or in part, with or without further 
       discussion or negotiation.

<strong>5.     Process</strong>

(1)    The Standing Offer is normally processed as follows:

       (a)    An RFSO is obtained by offerors (suppliers) through the 
              Government Electronic Tendering Service (GETS), provided by 
              MERX.

       (b)    Offerors then complete the request and return it to DPWGS as 
              a proposed Standing Offer.

       (c)    PWGSC issues a Standing Offer and Call-up Authority (SOCA) to 
              successful offerors and identified users (client departments 
              or agencies) authorized to make call-ups directly.

<strong>6.     Submission of Offers</strong>

(1)    It is the Offeror's responsibility to:

       (a)    return a signed original of the RFSO, duly completed, IN THE 
              FORMAT REQUESTED;

       (b)    direct its offer ONLY to the DPWGS receiving address 
              specified;

       (c)    ensure that the Offeror's name, the DPWGS file number, and 
              solicitation closing date and time are clearly visible;

       (d)    provide a comprehensive and sufficiently detailed offer, 
              including all requested pricing details, that will permit a 
              complete evaluation in accordance with the criteria set out 
              in the solicitation.

<strong>              Timely and correct delivery of offers to the specified 
              delivery address is the sole responsibility of the Offeror.  
              The Department of Public Works and Government Services (DPWGS) 
              will not assume or have transferred to it those 
              responsibilities.  All risks and consequences of incorrect 
              delivery of offers are the responsibility of the Offeror.</strong>

(2)    The evaluation of proposed standing offers may result in 
       authorization to utilize one or more standing offers in whole or in 
       part, taking into consideration the lowest price per item and/or 
       destination or group of items and/or destinations or on a lowest 
       aggregate price basis. The lowest or any proposed Standing Offer 
       will not necessarily be authorized. In case of error in the 
       extension of prices, the unit price will govern. A SOCA document may 
       be issued against any proposed Standing Offer up to sixty (60) days 
       after the closing date of the RFSO, unless otherwise indicated, by 
       Canada, in such RFSO.

(3)    The Standing Offer should completely and thoroughly address each 
       element of the requirement as enumerated in the RFSO. It is also 
       essential that the elements contained in the offer be stated in a 
       clear and concise manner.

(4)    Bid documents and supporting information may be submitted in either 
       English or French.

(5)    Offers received on or before the stipulated bid solicitation closing 
       date and time will become the property of Canada and will not be 
       returned. All offers will be treated as CONFIDENTIAL.

<strong>7.     Responses Transmitted by Facsimile or Commercial Telegram</strong>
 
(1)    If you are in doubt that your offer will be delivered on time at the 
       specific location designated for the receipt of the offer, you may 
       use a facsimile or a commercial telegram, unless otherwise 
       instructed in the RFSO.

       <strong>NOTE</strong>:  Due to the volume of technical material required for some 
                     offers, certain RFSO's may specify that submissions by 
                     facsimile or commercial telegram are not acceptable (e.g. 
                     science solicitations).

(2)    Unless otherwise instructed in the RFSO, the only acceptable 
       facsimile number for responses to RFSO's issued by DPWGS 
       headquarters sectors is (819) 997-9776.

(3)    The facsimile number for responses to RFSO's issued by DPWGS 
       regional offices is identified on the front page of the document.

       If the Offeror chooses to submit a facsimile or commercial telegram 
       offer, Canada will not be responsible for any failure attributable 
       to the transmission or receipt of the facsimile offer including, but 
       not limited to the following:

       (a)    receipt of garbled or incomplete offer;
       (b)    availability or condition of the receiving facsimile 
equipment;
       (c)    incompatibility between the sending and receiving equipment;
       (d)    delay in transmission or receipt of the offer;
       (e)    failure of the Offeror to properly identify the offer;
       (f)    illegibility of the offer; or
       (g)    security of bid data.

(4)    Offers submitted by facsimile or commercial telegram will constitute 
       your formal offer and must contain:

       (a)    the DPWGS file reference number;
       (b)    the closing date and time;
       (c)    sufficient data to allow evaluation, such as unit prices, 
              country of currency in the event that the offer is submitted 
              in a foreign currency, sales tax, duty, technical data (where 
              applicable) and any deviation(s) from the RFSO document.

(5)    For responses transmitted by facsimile or commercial telegram, 
       written confirmation is required within two (2) working days after 
       bid closing, unless otherwise specified in this solicitation. All 
       documents confirming bids should bear the word "CONFIRMATION".

<strong>8.     Late Offers</strong>

       It is DPWGS policy to return, unopened, offers delivered after the 
       stipulated RFSO closing date and time, unless they qualify as a 
       delayed offer as described below.

<strong>9.     Delayed Offers</strong>

(1)    An offer delivered to the specified Bid Receiving area after the 
       closing date and time but before the issue of a SOCA may be 
       considered, provided the delay can be proven to have been due solely 
       to a delay in delivery that can be attributed to the Canada Post 
       Corporation (CPC) (or national equivalent of a foreign country). The 
       only pieces of evidence relating to a delay in the CPC system that 
       are acceptable to DPWGS are:

       (a)    a CPC cancellation date stamp;
       (b)    a CPC Priority Courier Bill of Lading; and
       (c)    a CPC Xpresspost Label,

       that clearly indicate that the offer was mailed prior to the RFSO 
closing date.

       Example: If the RFSO closing date was May 15, 1995, then the CPC 
       cancellation date stamp should read no later than May 14, 1995, to 
       be accepted.

(2)    Please request the postal employee to date-stamp your envelope.

(3)    For offers transmitted by facsimile or commercial telegram, only the 
       date and the time of receipt recorded by DPWGS at the Bid Receiving 
       number stated in the solicitation document will be accepted as 
       evidence of a delayed offer.

(4)    Misrouting, traffic volume, weather disturbances, or any other 
       causes for the late delivery of offers are not acceptable reasons 
       for the offer to be accepted by DPWGS.

<strong>10.    Postage Meters</strong>

       Postage meter imprints, whether imprinted by the Offeror, the CPC or 
       the postal authority outside Canada, are not acceptable as proof of 
       timely mailing. It should be noted that CPC does not normally apply 
       a cancellation date stamp to metered mail; this is usually done only 
       when postage stamps are used.

<strong>11.    Standard Clauses, Conditions and Instruction Sets</strong>

       Any standard clause, and any condition or instruction set, used or 
       referenced in an RFSO, a Standing Offer, or a call-up pursuant to a 
       Standing Offer may be updated from time to time. When this happens, 
       the version used in an already-issued document will remain in effect 
       in that document, unless the updated version is legally incorporated.

<strong>12.    Identity or Legal Capacity of Offeror</strong>

       In order to establish the legal capacity under which an Offeror 
       proposes to enter into a Standing Offer, any offeror who carries on 
       business in other than its own personal name shall, if requested by 
       the Contracting Authority, provide proof of the legal capacity under 
       which it carries on business to the Contracting Authority prior to 
       the issuance of a Standing Offer. Such proof may be in the form of a 
       copy of the articles of incorporation or of the registration of the 
       business name of a sole proprietor, of a trade name, of a 
       partnership, etc.

 
<strong>B.     PARTICULARS OF THE STANDING OFFER</strong>

<strong>1.     General</strong>

(1)    The Offeror acknowledges that a Standing Offer is not a contract.

(2)    The Offeror offers to sell or provide and deliver to Canada, acting 
       through and represented by the Minister of Public Works and 
       Government Services, the goods or services, or both, listed at the 
       price(s) or on the pricing basis set out, as and when the Identified 
       User may request such goods or services, in accordance with the 
       following provisions.

(3)    It is understood and agreed that:

       (a)    a Call-up Against a Standing Offer shall form a contract only 
              for those goods or services, or both, which have been 
              called-up, provided always that such call-up is made in 
              accordance with the provisions of the Standing Offer;

       (b)    the issue and distribution of the authorization to use this 
              Standing Offer does not oblige Canada to authorize or order 
              all or any of the goods, services, or both, described in the 
              Standing Offer;

       (c)    Canada's liability shall be limited to that which arises from 
              call-ups against the offer, made within the period specified 
              in the SOCA;

       (d)    Canada reserves the right to procure the specified goods or 
              services by means of contracts, standing offers, or by other 
              contracting methods.

<strong>2.     Notification of Withdrawal/Revision</strong>

       In the event that the Offeror wishes to withdraw the Standing Offer 
       after authority to call-up against a Standing Offer has been given, 
       the Offeror shall provide no less than thirty (30) days' written 
       notice to the Contracting Authority, unless otherwise indicated in 
       the SOCA, in order that the Contracting Authority may inform all 
       identified users. Such withdrawal of Standing Offer shall not be 
       effective until receipt of such notification by DPWGS and the expiry 
       of such notice period. The Offeror hereby agrees to fulfil any and 
       all call-ups which may be made before the expiry of such notice 
       period. If the period of the Standing Offer is extended or the 
       limitation of expenditure is increased, the Contracting Authority 
       will issue a revision to the SOCA.

<strong>3.     Call-up Instrument</strong>

       The identified users shall order goods and services either on form 
       DSS-MAS 942, "Call-up Against a Standing Offer", or on such other 
       call-up document as may be specified in the Standing Offer. Goods 
       and services may also be ordered by other methods such as telephone, 
       facsimile or telegram, but must be confirmed in writing either on 
       form DSS-MAS 942 or on such other document as may be specified.

       Call-ups against a Standing Offer paid for with the Government of 
       Canada acquisition card (credit card) at point of sale will be 
       accorded the same prices and terms and conditions as any other 
       call-up.


<strong>C.     CONDITIONS</strong>

<strong>1.     Applicability</strong>

       The following conditions apply to all contracts resulting from any 
       call-up pursuant to the Standing Offer. Conditions numbers 6 through 
       10, however, only apply to goods contracts.

<strong>2.     Municipal Taxes</strong>

       Municipal taxes are not applicable.

<strong>3.     Provincial Taxes</strong>

(1)    Excluding legislated exceptions (see subsection (4) below), 
       identified users are not required to pay any ad valorem sales tax 
       levied by the province in which the taxable goods or services are 
       delivered. This exemption has been provided to identified users 
       under the authority of one of the following:

       (a)    Provincial Sales Tax Exemption Licence Numbers, for the 
              provinces of:

              Prince Edward Island OP-10000-250
              Ontario                     11708174G
              Manitoba             390-516-0
              British Columbia     005521

       (b)    An Exemption Certification, for Quebec, Saskatchewan, the 
              Yukon Territory, and the Northwest Territories, which 
              certifies that the property and/or services ordered/purchased 
              hereby are for the use of, and are being purchased by the 
              federal government with Canada funds, and are therefore not 
              subject to provincial/territorial sales and consumption taxes.

(2)    Currently, in Alberta, Saskatchewan, the Yukon Territory, and the 
       Northwest Territories, sales taxes do not apply to goods or services 
       delivered to the federal government.

(3)    The Offeror is not exempt from paying provincial sales tax under the 
       above Exemption Licence Numbers or Exemption Certification. The 
       Offeror is required to pay provincial sales tax on taxable goods or 
       services used or consumed in the performance of the contract (as per 
       appropriate provincial legislation), including material incorporated 
       into real property.

(4)    Exceptions

       The following exceptions are provided as examples and may not 
       represent a complete list of all exceptions under the law: 
       (a)    tobacco products subject to tobacco taxes;
       (b)    petroleum products subject to gasoline and motive fuel taxes;
       (c)    vehicle registration fees;
       (d)    amusement/admission (Nova Scotia and New Brunswick);
       (e)    insurance premiums (Quebec);
       (f)    tires/batteries subject to environmental levies (British 
              Columbia);
       (g)    transient living accommodation subject to hotel room taxes 
              (Prince Edward Island and British Columbia).

<strong>4.     Invoices</strong>

       Invoices must be submitted in the name of the Offeror and are not to 
       be submitted prior to the delivery of supplies or the performance of 
       the services. They must show the name and address of the Consignee, 
       together with date, method of shipment, the case numbers if 
       applicable, item, quantity, unit of issue, unit price, additional 
       charges if applicable, and the Goods and Services Tax or the 
       Harmonized Sales Tax if applicable, part or reference numbers, 
       description of supplies as shown in the Standing Offer, Standing 
       Offer number, requisition number, Client Reference Number (CRN) and 
       financial code(s). Separate invoices must be submitted for each 
       shipment and must apply to one call-up only. Each invoice must 
       indicate whether it covers partial or final shipment.

<strong>5.     Bills of Lading</strong>

       The transportation bill of lading must accompany the original 
       invoice, except for "collect" shipments (if and when allowed), in 
       which event it shall accompany the shipment; in addition, a packing 
       slip must accompany each shipment, be clearly visible, and show item, 
       quantity, part or reference numbers, description of supplies and 
       contract reference numbers, including the Client Reference Number 
       (CRN). If the supplies have been inspected at the Offeror's plant, 
       the signed inspection voucher must be attached to the packing slip 
       normally enclosed in the packing note envelope.

<strong>6.     Inspection and Acceptance</strong>

       The goods/services are subject to inspection and acceptance by the 
       consignee at destination, unless otherwise indicated in the SOCA.

<strong>7.     Condition of Material</strong>

       Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in the Contract, materiel 
       supplied shall be new and conform to the latest issue of the 
       applicable drawing, specification and/or part number that is in 
       effect on the solicitation closing date.

<strong>8.     Transportation Charges</strong>

       If transportation charges are payable by Canada under the terms of 
       the Contract, shipments are to be made by the most direct and 
       economical means consistent with normal shipping practice, unless 
       otherwise directed (as in the case when transportation costs are 
       part of the unit price). They are to be shown as a separate item on 
       the invoice.

<strong>9.     Valuation</strong>

       The federal government's policy of underwriting its own risks 
       precludes payment of any excess valuation and/or transportation 
       charges beyond the specified FOB point (the point at which title of 
       goods passes to the federal government). Goods will be covered to 
       the carrier's maximum liability and value will be declared only when 
       additional costs will not be incurred.

<strong>10.    Shipment into Canada</strong>

       Goods shipped into Canada from another country are to be consigned 
       to destination, IN BOND, unless otherwise directed.




</pre>