<pre><strong>2010   00     (2005-06-10)  General Conditions - Goods or Services (Medium 
                                   Complexity)</strong>

<strong>Remarks</strong>:      Use the following general conditions for Medium Complexity 
              Competitive and Non-Competitive requirements, for goods or 
              services.

<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Standard Conditions and Clauses
03     Status of the Contractor
04     Conduct of the Work
05     Subcontracts
06     Excusable Delay
07     Inspection, Acceptance and Warranty
08     Invoice Submission
09     Taxes
10     Transportation Charges
11     Shipment Documentation
12     Payment
13     Interest on Overdue Accounts
14     Audit
15     Compliance with Applicable Laws
16     Time of the Essence
17     Title
18     Confidentiality
19     Copyright
20     Government Property
21     Amendment
22     Assignment
23     Default by the Contractor
24     Termination for Convenience
25     Members of the House of Commons
26     Conflict of Interest
27     Contingency Fees
28     International Sanctions
29     Entire Agreement


<strong>2010   01     (2005-06-10)  Interpretation</strong>

In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires,

"Canada", "Crown", "Her Majesty" or "the Government" means Her Majesty the 
Queen in right of Canada;

"Contract" means the written agreement between the Parties, these general 
conditions, any referenced conditions and clauses, and any other document 
specified or referred to as forming part of the Contract, all as amended by 
agreement of the Parties from time to time;

"Contractor" means the person or entity whose name appears on the signature 
page of the written agreement and who is to supply goods or services to 
Canada under the Contract;

"Contract Price" means the amount expressed in the Contract to be payable 
to the Contractor for the Work;

"Cost" means cost determined in accordance with Contract Cost Principles 
1031-2 as revised to the date of the bid solicitation; 
"Government Property" means anything supplied to the Contractor by or on 
behalf of Canada for the purposes of performing the Contract and anything 
acquired by the Contractor in any manner in connection with the Work the 
cost of which is paid by Canada under the Contract;

"Minister" means the Minister of Public Works and Government Services and 
any other person duly authorized to act on behalf of that Minister;

"Moral Rights" has the same meaning as in the <em>Copyright Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. 
C-42;

"Party" means Canada or the Contractor or any other signatory to the 
Contract and "Parties" means all of them;

"Subcontract" includes a contract let by any subcontractor at any tier for 
the performance or supply of a part of the Work;

"Work" means the whole of the activities, services, goods, equipment, 
matters and things required to be done, delivered or performed by the 
Contractor in accordance with the terms of the Contract.

<strong>2010   02     (2005-06-10)  Standard Conditions and Clauses</strong>

Pursuant to the <em>Department of Public Works and Government Services Act</em>, S.C. 
1996, c. 16, the conditions and clauses identified by title, number and 
date in the Contract are incorporated by reference into and form part of 
the Contract as though expressly set out in the Contract.

<strong>2010   03     (2005-06-10)  Status of the Contractor</strong>

The Contractor is engaged as an independent Contractor for the sole purpose 
of performing the Work. Neither the Contractor nor any of its personnel is 
engaged as an employee, servant or agent of Canada.  The Contractor is 
responsible for all deductions and remittances required by law in relation 
to its employees.

<strong>2010   04     (2005-06-10)  Conduct of the Work</strong>

1.     The Contractor represents and warrants that:

       (a)    it is competent to perform the Work; and

       (b)    it has the necessary qualifications, including knowledge and 
              skill, to perform the Work.

2.     The Contractor must:

       (a)    supply everything necessary for the performance of the Work;

       (b)    carry out the Work in a diligent and efficient manner; and

       (c)    perform the Work in accordance with standards of quality 
              acceptable to Canada and in full conformity with the 
              requirements of the Contract.

<strong>2010   05     (2005-06-10)  Subcontracts</strong>

1.     The Contractor may subcontract the supply of standard goods or 
       services which are customarily subcontracted by the Contractor.  In 
       any other instance, the Contractor must obtain the prior consent in 
       writing of the Minister.  The Minister may require the Contractor to 
       furnish such particulars of the proposed Subcontract as he deems 
       necessary.

2.     Subcontracting does not relieve the Contractor from any of its 
       obligations under the Contract or impose any liability upon Canada 
       or the Minister to a subcontractor.

3.     In any Subcontract, the Contractor agrees to bind the subcontractor 
       by the same terms and conditions by which the Contractor is bound 
       under the Contract, unless the Minister requires or agrees otherwise.

<strong>2010   06     (2005-06-10)  Excusable Delay</strong>

1.     A delay in the performance by the Contractor of any obligation under 
       the Contract which is caused solely by an event that

       (a)    was beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor,

       (b)    could not reasonably have been foreseen,

       (c)    could not reasonably have been prevented by means reasonably 
              available to the Contractor, and

       (d)    occurred without the fault or neglect of the Contractor, 

       constitutes an "Excusable Delay" provided that the Contractor 
       advises the Minister of the occurrence of the delay or of the 
       likelihood of the delay occurring as soon as the Contractor becomes 
       aware of it. The Contractor must further advise the Minister, within 
       fifteen (15) working days, of the full facts or matters giving rise 
       to the delay and provide to the Minister for approval a clear 
       work-around plan indicating in detail the steps that the Contractor 
       proposes to take in order to minimize the impact of the event 
       causing the delay.

2.     In the event of an Excusable Delay, any delivery date or other date 
       that is directly affected will be postponed for a reasonable time 
       not to exceed the duration of the Excusable Delay.

3.     The Minister may, however, after an Excusable Delay has continued 
       for thirty (30) days or more, in the Minister's absolute discretion, 
       terminate the Contract.  In such a case, the Parties agree that 
       neither will make any claim against the other for damages, costs, 
       expected profits or any other loss arising out of the termination or 
       the event that gave rise to the Excusable Delay.  The Contractor 
       agrees to repay immediately to Canada the portion of any advance 
       payment that is unliquidated at the date of the termination.

4.     Except to the extent that Canada is responsible for the delay for 
       reasons of failure to meet an obligation under the Contract, Canada 
       is not liable for any costs or charges of any nature incurred by the 
       Contractor or any of its subcontractors or agents as a result of an 
       Excusable Delay.

5.     Upon termination of the Contract under this section, the Minister 
       may require the Contractor to deliver to Canada, in the manner and 
       to the extent directed by the Minister, any completed parts of the 
       Work which have not been delivered and accepted prior to the 
       termination and any materials, parts, plant, equipment or 
       work-in-process which the Contractor has acquired or produced 
       specifically in the fulfillment of the Contract.  Canada will pay 
       the Contractor the value, determined on the basis of the Contract 
       Price, including the proportionate part of the Contractor's profit 
       or fee included in the Contract Price, of all completed parts of the 
       Work and the Cost to the 
Contractor that the Minister considers reasonable in respect of all 
materials, parts, plant, equipment or work-in-process delivered to Canada 
and accepted by Canada.  In no event will the aggregate of the amounts paid 
by Canada under the Contract to the date of termination and any amounts 
payable pursuant to this subsection exceed the Contract Price.

<strong>2010   07     (2005-06-10)  Inspection, Acceptance and Warranty</strong>

The Work is subject to inspection and acceptance by Canada.  Despite prior 
acceptance of the Work and without restricting any conditions or warranty 
imposed by law, the Contractor, if requested by the Minister to do so, must 
replace, repair or correct at its option and its own expense any Work which 
becomes defective or which fails to conform to the Contract requirements, 
where applicable.  For goods, the warranty period will be twelve (12) 
months after delivery and acceptance or the length of the Contractor's or 
manufacturer's standard warranty period, whichever is longer.  Any Work 
replaced, repaired or corrected pursuant to this section is subject to all 
provisions of the contract to the same extent as Work initially performed.

Canada must pay the transportation cost associated with returning any Work 
to the Contractor for replacement, repair or making good and the Contractor 
must pay the transportation cost associated with forwarding the replacement 
or returning the Work to the delivery point specified in the Contract or to 
another location as directed by Canada. If, in the opinion of the Minister, 
it is not expedient to remove the Work from its location, the Contractor 
must carry out any necessary repair or making good of the Work at that 
location and will be paid its reasonable travelling and living expenses.

<strong>2010   08     (2005-06-10)  Invoice Submission</strong>

Invoices must be submitted in the name of the Contractor.  They must show 
the name and address of the client department, item/reference number, 
deliverable and/or description of Work, contract serial number, Client 
Reference Number (CRN), Procurement Business Number (PBN) and financial 
code(s).  If applicable, the method of shipment together with date, case 
numbers and part or reference numbers, item, quantity, unit of issue, unit 
price, and additional charges will be shown on the invoice.  If applicable, 
fixed time labour rates and level of effort and, the amount invoiced 
(exclusive of the Goods and Services Tax {GST} or Harmonized Sales Tax {HST} 
as appropriate), will be shown separately.

GST or HST, if applicable, will be incorporated into all invoices and shown 
as a separate item on invoices.  All items that are zero-rated, exempt or 
to which the GST or HST does not apply, are to be identified as such on all 
invoices.  Invoices must be submitted for each delivery/shipment and must 
apply to one contract only.  Each invoice must indicate whether it covers 
partial or final delivery.

<strong>2010   09     (2005-06-10)  Taxes</strong>

1.     Municipal Taxes 
       Municipal Taxes are not applicable.

2.     Provincial Taxes

       (a)    Excluding legislated exceptions, federal government 
              departments and agencies are not required to pay any ad 
              valorem sales tax levied by the province in which the taxable 
              goods or services are delivered.  This exemption has been 
              provided to federal government departments and agencies under 
              the authority of one of the following:

              (i)    Provincial Sales Tax (PST) Exemption Licence Numbers, 
                     for the provinces of:

                     Prince Edward Island OP-10000-250
                     Ontario                     11708174G
                     Manitoba             390-516-0
                     British Columbia     R005521

              (ii)   For Quebec, Saskatchewan, the Yukon Territory, the 
                     Northwest Territories and Nunavut, an Exemption 
                     Certification, which certifies that the goods or 
                     services purchased are not subject to the provincial/
                     territorial sales and consumption taxes because they 
                     are being purchased by the federal government with 
                     Canada funds for the use of the federal government. 

       (b)    Currently, in Alberta, the Yukon Territory, the Northwest 
              Territories and Nunavut, there is no general PST.  However, 
              should a PST be introduced in the Northwest Territories, 
              Nunavut, or Yukon Territory, the sales tax exemption 
              certificate would be required on the purchasing document.

       (c)    Federal departments are required to pay the HST in the 
              participating provinces of Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova 
              Scotia and New Brunswick.

       (d)    The Contractor is not exempt from paying PST under the above 
              Exemption Licence Numbers or Exemption Certification.  The 
              Contractor is required to pay the PST on taxable goods or 
              services used or consumed in the performance of the Contract 
              (as per appropriate provincial legislation), including 
              material incorporated into real property.

3.     Changes to Taxes and Duties

       In the event of any change in any tax imposed under the <em>Excise Act</em>, 
       R.S.C 1985, c. E-14, and <em>Excise Tax Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. E-15, or 
       any duties imposed under the Customs Tariff or any other federal or 
       provincial sales, excise or other like duties, taxes, charges or 
       impositions after the bid submission date and which affects the 
       costs of the Work to the Contractor, the Contract price will be 
       adjusted to reflect the increase or decrease in the cost to the 
       Contractor.

4.     Goods and Services Tax/Harmonized Sales Tax

       The estimated Goods and Services Tax (GST) or Harmonized Sales Tax 
       (HST), if applicable, is included in the total estimated cost on 
       page 1 of the Contract.  The GST or HST is not included in the 
       Contract price but will be paid by Canada as provided in the Invoice 
       Submission clause above. The Contractor agrees to remit to Canada 
       Revenue Agency any amounts of GST and HST paid or due.

<strong>2010   10     (2005-06-10)  Transportation Charges</strong>

If transportation charges are payable by Canada under the terms of the 
Contract and the Contractor makes the transportation arrangements, 
shipments must be made by the most direct and economical means consistent 
with normal shipping practice. The charges must be shown as a separate item 
on the invoice. The federal government's policy of underwriting its own 
risks precludes payment of insurance or valuation charges for 
transportation beyond the point at which title of goods passes to the 
federal government (determined by the FOB point or Incoterms).  Where 
increased carrier liability is available without charge, the Contractor 
must obtain the increased liability for shipment.

<strong>2010   11     (2005-06-10)  Shipment Documentation</strong>

For the shipment of goods, the transportation bill of lading must accompany 
the original invoice, except for "collect" shipments (if and when 
stipulated), in which event it must accompany the shipment.  In addition, a 
packing slip must accompany each shipment, showing item, quantity, part or 
reference numbers, description of suppliers and contract reference numbers, 
including the Client Reference Number (CRN) and Procurement Business Number 
(PBN).  If the goods have been inspected at the Contractor's plant, the 
signed inspection voucher must be attached to the packing slip normally 
enclosed in the packing note envelope.

<strong>2010   12     (2005-06-10)  Payment</strong>

Payment by Canada for the Work will be made following delivery, inspection 
and acceptance of the Work, and upon presentation of invoices and any other 
substantiating documentation as Canada requires.  

<strong>2010   13     (2005-06-10)  Interest on Overdue Accounts</strong><strong></strong>

1.     For the purposes of this section: 
       "Average Rate" means the simple arithmetic mean of the Bank Rates in 
       effect at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time each day during the 
       calendar month which immediately precedes the calendar month in 
       which payment is made;

       "Bank Rate" means the rate of interest established from time to time 
       by the Bank of Canada as the minimum rate at which the Bank of 
       Canada makes short term advances to members of the Canadian Payments 
       Association;<strong></strong>

       "date of payment" means the date of the negotiable instrument drawn 
       by the Receiver General for Canada and given for payment of an 
       amount due and payable under the Contract;

       an amount becomes "overdue" when it is unpaid on the first day 
       following the day upon which it is due and payable in accordance 
       with the terms of the Contract.

2.     Canada is liable to pay to the Contractor simple interest at the 
       Average Rate plus three percent (3%) per annum on any amount that is 
       overdue, from the date such amount becomes overdue until the day 
       prior to the date of payment, inclusive.  Interest will be paid 
       without notice from the Contractor.

3.     Canada is not liable to pay interest in accordance with this section 
       if Canada is not responsible for the delay in paying the Contractor. 
       Canada is not liable to pay interest on overdue advance payments. 

<strong>2010   14     (2005-06-10)  Audit</strong>

1.     The Contractor must keep proper accounts and records of the Cost to 
       the Contractor of the Work and of all expenditures or commitments 
       made by the Contractor in connection with the Work and must keep all 
       invoices, receipts and vouchers relating to the Work.  The 
       Contractor must not, without the prior written consent of the 
       Minister, dispose of any such accounts, records, invoices, receipts 
       or vouchers until the expiration of 6 years after final payment 
       under the Contract, or until the settlement of all outstanding 
       claims and disputes, whichever is later.

2.     All such accounts and records as well as any invoices, receipts and 
       vouchers must at all times during the retention period referred to 
       in subsection 1 be open to audit, inspection and examination by the 
       authorized representatives of the Minister, who may make copies and 
       take extracts.  The Contractor must provide all facilities for such 
       audits and inspections and must furnish all such information as the 
       representatives of the Minister may from time to time require with 
       respect to such accounts, records, invoices, receipts and vouchers.

<strong>2010   15     (2005-06-10)  Compliance with Applicable Laws</strong>

The Contractor must comply with all laws applicable to the performance of 
the Work.

<strong>2010   16     (2005-06-10)  Time of the Essence</strong>

The Work must be performed within or at the time stated in the Contract.

<strong>2010   17     (2005-06-10)  Title</strong>

1.     Except as otherwise provided in the Contract, and except as provided 
       in subsection 2, title of the Work or any part of the Work belongs 
       to Canada upon delivery and acceptance by or on behalf of Canada.

2.     If any payment is made to the Contractor for or on account of 
       materials, parts, work-in-process or finished work, either by way of 
       progress payments or accountable advances or otherwise, title in and 
       to all materials, parts, work-in-process and finished work so paid 
       for belongs to Canada upon payment.  Transfer pursuant to this 
       subsection does not constitute acceptance by Canada of the materials, 
       parts, work-in-process or finished work, and does not relieve the 
       Contractor of its obligation to perform the Work in accordance with 
       the Contract.

3.     Despite any transfer of title referred to in this section and except 
       as otherwise provided in the Contract, the risk of loss or damage to 
       the materials, parts, work-in-process or finished Work remains with 
       the Contractor until their delivery to Canada in accordance with the 
       Contract.

4.     Where title to any materials, parts, work-in-process or finished 
       Work is transferred to Canada, the Contractor must, upon the 
       Minister's request, establish to the Minister's satisfaction that 
       the title is free and clear of all claims, liens, attachments, 
       charges or encumbrances and must execute such conveyances and other 
       instruments necessary to perfect that title as the Minister may 
       request.

<strong>2010   18     (2005-06-10)  Confidentiality</strong>

1.     The Contractor must keep confidential all information provided to 
       the Contractor by or on behalf of Canada in connection with the Work 
       and all information conceived, developed or produced by the 
       Contractor as part of the Work.  Information provided to the 
       Contractor by or on behalf of Canada must be used solely for the 
       purpose of the Contract and remains the property of Canada.

2.     Subject to the <em>Access to Information Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. A-1, and 
       to any right of Canada under the Contract to release or disclose, 
       Canada agrees not to release or disclose outside the Government of 
       Canada any information delivered to Canada under the Contract that 
       is proprietary to the Contractor or a subcontractor.

3.     The obligations of the Parties set out in this section do not apply 
       to any information where the same information:

       (a)    is publicly available from a source other than the other 
              Party; or

       (b)    is or becomes known to a Party from a source other than the 
              other Party, except any source that is known to be under an 
              obligation to the other Party not to disclose the information, 
              or

       (c)    is developed by a Party without use of the information of the 
              other Party.

<strong>2010   19     (2005-06-10)  Copyright</strong>

1.     Anything that is created or developed by the Contractor as part of 
       the Work under the Contract in which copyright subsists belongs to 
       Canada.  The Contractor must incorporate the copyright symbol and 
       either of the following notices, as appropriate:

       ©      HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF CANADA (year)

              or

       ©      SA MAJESTÉ LA REINE DU CHEF DU CANADA (année)

2.     At the request of the Minister, the Contractor must provide to 
       Canada, at the completion of the Work or at such other time as the 
       Minister may require, a written permanent waiver of Moral Rights, in 
       a form acceptable to the Minister, from every author that 
       contributed to the Work.  If the Contractor is an author, the 
       Contractor permanently waives the Contractor's Moral Rights.

<strong>2010   20     (2005-06-10)  Government Property</strong>

The Contractor must take reasonable and proper care of all Government 
Property while such property is in its possession or subject to its control 
and is responsible for any loss or damage, ordinary wear and tear excepted, 
resulting from its failure to do so.

<strong>2010   21     (2005-06-10)  Amendment</strong>

No amendment to the Contract is effective unless it is incorporated into 
the Contract by written amendment executed by the authorized 
representatives of the Minister and of the Contractor.

<strong>2010   22     (2005-06-10)  Assignment</strong>

1.     The Contract must not be assigned, in whole or in part, by the 
       Contractor without the prior consent in writing of the Minister and 
       any assignment made without that consent is void and of no effect.

2.     Assignment of the Contract does not relieve the Contractor from any 
       obligation under the Contract or impose any liability upon Canada or 
       the Minister, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Minister.

<strong>2010   23     (2005-06-10)  Default by the Contractor</strong>

1.     Where the Contractor is in default in carrying out any of its 
       obligations under the Contract, the Minister may, upon giving 
       written notice to the Contractor, terminate for default the whole or 
       any part of the Contract, either immediately, or at the expiration 
       of a cure period specified in the notice if the Contractor has not 
       cured the default to the satisfaction of the Minister within that 
       cure period.

2.     Where the Contractor becomes bankrupt or insolvent, makes an 
       assignment for the benefit of creditors, or takes the benefit of any 
       statute relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors, or where a 
       receiver is appointed under a debt instrument or a receiving order 
       is made against the Contractor, or an order is made or a resolution 
       passed for the winding up of the Contractor, the Minister may, upon 
       giving notice to the Contractor, immediately terminate for default 
       the whole or any part of the Contract.

3.     Upon the giving of a notice provided for in subsection 1 or 2, the 
       Contractor will have no claim for further payment, but remains 
       liable to Canada for any amounts, including milestone payments, paid 
       by Canada and for all losses and damages which may be suffered by 
       Canada by reason of the default, including any increase in the cost 
       incurred by Canada in procuring the Work from another source.

4.     Upon termination of the Contract under this section, the Minister 
       may require the Contractor to deliver to Canada, in the manner and 
       to the extent directed by the Minister, any completed parts of the 
       Work which have not been delivered and accepted prior to the 
       termination and any materials, parts, plant, equipment or 
       work-in-process which the Contractor has acquired or produced 
       specifically in the fulfillment of the Contract.

5.     Subject to the deduction of any claim that Canada may have against 
       the Contractor arising under the Contract or out of the termination, 
       Canada will pay the Contractor the value, determined on the basis of 
       the Contract Price including the proportionate part of the 
       Contractor's profit or fee included in the Contract Price, of all 
       completed parts of the Work and the Cost to the Contractor that the 
       Minister considers reasonable in respect of all materials, parts, 
       plant, equipment or work-
in-process delivered to Canada pursuant to a direction under subsection 4 
and accepted by Canada.

<strong>2010   24     (2005-06-10)  Termination for Convenience</strong>

1.     The Minister may, at any time prior to the completion of the Work, 
       by giving notice to the Contractor in writing, terminate the 
       Contract as regards all or any part of the Work not completed.  Upon 
       a termination notice being given, the Contractor must cease Work in 
       accordance with and to the extent specified in the notice, but must 
       proceed to complete such part or parts of the Work as are not 
       affected by the termination notice.

2.     In the event of a termination notice being given pursuant to 
       subsection 1, the Contractor will be entitled to be paid, to the 
       extent that costs have been reasonably and properly incurred for 
       purposes of performing the Contract and to the extent that the 
       Contractor has not already been so paid or reimbursed by Canada:

       (a)    on the basis of the Contract Price, for all completed Work 
              that is accepted in accordance with the Contract, whether 
              completed before, or after and in compliance with the 
              instructions contained in the termination notice;

       (b)    the Cost to the Contractor plus a fair and reasonable profit, 
              for all Work terminated by the termination notice before 
              completion, the Cost to the Contractor being determined in 
              accordance with the terms of the Contract and with Contract 
              Cost Principles 1031-2;

       (c)    all costs of and incidental to the termination of the Work, 
              but not including the cost of severance payments or damages 
              to employees whose services are no longer required by reason 
              of the termination except wages that the Contractor is 
              obligated by statute to pay them and except for reasonable 
              severance payments or damages paid to employees hired to 
              perform the Contract whose hiring was expressly required by 
              the Contract or approved in writing by the Minister for the 
              purpose of the Contract.

3.     The Minister may reduce the payment in respect of any of the Work to 
       the extent that, upon inspection, it is deficient in meeting the 
       requirements of the Contract.

4.     The total of the amounts to which the Contractor is entitled under 
       subsections 2.(a) and (b), together with any amounts paid or due or 
       becoming due to the Contractor under other provisions of the 
       Contract, must not exceed the Contract Price or the portion that is 
       applicable to the part of the Work that is terminated.

5.     The Contractor has no claim for damages, compensation, loss of 
       profit, allowance or otherwise by reason of, or directly or 
       indirectly arising out of, any action taken or termination notice 
       given by the Minister under this section, except to the extent that 
       this section expressly provides.

<strong>2010   25     (2005-06-10)  Members of the House of Commons</strong>

Members of the House of Commons are not admitted to any share or part of 
the Contract or to any benefit resulting from the Contract.

<strong>2010   26     (2005-06-10)  Conflict of Interest</strong>

Persons not in compliance with the provisions of the Conflict of Interest 
and Post-Employment Code for Public Office Holders or the Values and Ethics 
Code for the Public Service cannot derive any direct benefit resulting from 
the Contract.

<strong>2010   27     (2005-06-10)  Contingency Fees</strong>

The Contractor certifies that it has not directly or indirectly paid or 
agreed to pay and agrees that it will not directly or indirectly pay a 
contingency fee for the solicitation, negotiation or obtaining of the 
Contract to any person, other than an employee of the Contractor acting in 
the normal course of the employee's duties.  In this section, "contingency 
fee" means any payment or other compensation that is depending or 
calculated upon the basis of a degree of success in soliciting, negotiating 
or obtaining the Contract and "person" includes any individual who is 
required to file a return with the registrar pursuant to section 5 of the <em>
Lobbyists Registration Act</em>, R.S. 1985 c.44 (4th Supplement).
 
<strong>2010   28     (2005-06-10)  International Sanctions</strong>

1.     Persons in Canada, and Canadians outside of Canada, are bound by 
       economic sanctions imposed by Canada.  As a result, the Government 
       of Canada cannot accept delivery of goods or services that originate, 
       either directly or indirectly, from the countries or persons subject 
       to economic sanctions.

       Details on existing sanctions can be found at:
       <strong class="wsStyleUnderline"><a href="http://www.dfait-maeci.gc.ca/trade/sanctions-e.asp" rel="external">http://www.dfait-maeci.gc.ca/trade/sanctions-e.asp</a></strong>.

2.     The Contractor must not supply to the Government of Canada any goods 
       or services which are subject to economic sanctions.

3.     By law, the Contractor must comply with changes to the regulations 
       imposed during the life of the Contract.  During the performance of 
       the Contract, should the imposition of sanctions against a country 
       or person or the addition of a good or service to the list of 
       sanctioned goods or services cause an impossibility of performance 
       for the Contractor, the situation will be treated by the Parties as 
       a force majeure.  The Contractor must immediately inform Canada of 
       the situation and the procedures applicable to force majeure will 
       then apply.

<strong>2010   29     (2005-06-10)  Entire Agreement</strong>

The Contract constitutes the entire and sole agreement between the parties.



</pre>