<pre><strong>9601-5 00     (2005-06-10)  Support Services for Licensed Software</strong>


<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Error Correction Services
03     Updates
04     Media
05     New Releases
06     Hotline Service
07     Support Charges and On-Site Services
08     Canada's Responsibilities
09     Excluded Services
10     Termination for Convenience


<strong>9601-5 01     (2005-06-10)  Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires,

       "General Conditions" means general conditions 9601 which forms part 
       of the Contract;

       "Canada", "Crown", "Her Majesty", "the Government" means Her Majesty 
       the Queen in right of Canada;

       "Software Error" means any software instruction or statement 
       contained in or absent from the Licensed Programs, which, by its 
       presence or absence, prevents the Licensed Programs from operating 
       in accordance with the Specifications;

       "Software Support Period" means the period, specified in the 
       Contract, during which the Contractor is obligated to support the 
       Licensed Software in accordance with the terms of the Contract;

       "Updates" has the meaning assigned to it in section 03.

2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these supplemental general conditions shall have the meanings 
       assigned to them in the General Conditions.

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these supplemental general conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these supplemental general conditions shall prevail.

4.     If supplemental general conditions 9601-4 form part of the Contract, 
       words and expressions defined in those supplemental general 
       conditions and used in these supplemental general conditions shall 
       have the meanings assigned to them in those supplemental general 
       conditions.

5.     If supplemental general conditions 9601-4 do not form part of the 
       Contract, then, for the purposes of the Contract,

       "Licensed Documentation" means all of the manuals, handbooks, user 
       guides and other human-
readable material which have been furnished by the Contractor to Canada for 
use with the Licensed Programs, whether supplied in printed form or on 
magnetic tape, disk or other Media;

       "Licensed Programs" means all of the computer programs, in 
       object-code form, which are to be supported by the Contractor under 
       the Contract, other than those computer programs, if any, which have 
       been developed for Canada by the Contractor and which are covered by 
       supplemental general conditions 9601-2;

       "Licensed Software" means the Licensed Programs and the Licensed 
       Documentation collectively.

6.     The sections of the General Conditions entitled "Title" and "
       Warranty" do not apply to the Licensed Software and the Media.  The 
       title, warranty and support provisions contained in these 
       supplemental general conditions and in supplemental general 
       conditions 9601-4, if that set forms part of the Contract, apply in 
       place of those sections. 
<strong>9601-5 02     (1992-12-01)  Error Correction Services</strong>

1.     Any failure of the Licensed Programs to operate in accordance with 
       the Specifications may be reported by Canada to the Contractor 
       during the Software Support Period.  Canada may report failures 
       either in writing or by telephone or other remote communication.  
       Upon receipt of a report of a failure from Canada, the Contractor 
       shall use all reasonable efforts to provide Canada, within the time 
       frames established in subsections 2 and 3, with a permanent 
       correction of the Software Error which caused the failure or, at the 
       Contractor's option, with a software patch or by-pass around the 
       Software Error as a temporary correction.  As a minimum, any such 
       software patch or by-pass shall cause the Licensed Programs to meet 
       the functional and performance criteria set out in the 
       Specifications.  Although the Contractor shall use all reasonable 
       efforts to provide permanent corrections for all Software Errors, 
       Canada acknowledges that certain Software Errors may not be 
       permanently corrected by the Contractor under the Contract.  All 
       Software Error corrections, whether temporary or permanent, shall 
       become part of the Licensed Software and shall be subject to the 
       terms and conditions of Canada's license with respect to the 
       Licensed Software.

2.     The Contractor shall respond to a report of a Software Error in 
       accordance with the severity of the Software Error, as detailed in 
       subsection 3.  The severity shall be reasonably determined by Canada, 
       and communicated to the Contractor, based on the following 
       definitions:

       Severity 1:   indicates total inability to use a licensed program, 
                     resulting in a critical impact on user objectives;

       Severity 2:   indicates ability to use a licensed program but user 
                     operation is severely restricted;

       Severity 3:   indicates ability to use a licensed program with 
                     limited functions which are not critical to overall 
                     user operations;

       Severity 4:   indicates that the problem has been by-passed or 
                     otherwise temporarily corrected and is not affecting 
                     user operations.

3.     The Contractor shall use reasonable efforts to correct Software 
       Errors as follows:

       Severity 1:   within 24 hours of notification by Canada;

       Severity 2:   within 72 hours of notification by Canada;

       Severity 3:   within 14 days of notification by Canada;

       Severity 4:   within 120 days of notification by Canada.

4.     If Canada reports a Software Error to the Contractor, Canada shall 
       give the Contractor reasonable access to the computer system on 
       which the Licensed Program resides, and shall provide such 
       information as the Contractor may reasonably request, including 
       sample output and other diagnostic information, in order to permit 
       the Contractor to expeditiously correct the Software Error.

<strong>9601-5 03     (1992-12-01)  Updates</strong> 

During the Software Support Period, the Contractor shall provide Canada, at 
no additional cost, with all enhancements, extensions or other 
modifications to the Licensed Software (herein collectively called "Updates
") when such enhancements, extensions or other modifications are developed 
or published by the Contractor or its licensor and made generally available 
to other licensees of the Licensed Software at no additional cost.  All 
Updates shall become part of the Licensed Software and shall be subject to 
the terms and conditions of Canada's license with respect to the Licensed 
Software.

<strong>9601-5 04     (1992-12-01)  Media</strong>

1.     All Software Error corrections and Updates shall be provided by the 
       Contractor to Canada on Media which are free of defects and of 
       computer viruses, and which are compatible with the computer system 
       on which the Licensed Programs are installed.

2.     Title to Media provided to Canada in the performance of the software 
       support services shall vest in Canada upon delivery to and 
       acceptance thereof by or on behalf of Canada.  "Media", for the 
       purposes of this subsection, does not include the Licensed Software 
       stored on the Media.

<strong>9601-5 05     (1992-12-01)  New Releases</strong>

During the Software Support Period, the Contractor shall keep Canada 
informed of, and make available to Canada through separate license 
agreements, all new Releases of the Licensed Software.  "Releases", for the 
purposes of this section, means enhancements or modifications to the 
Licensed Software or new modules or supplementary modules that function in 
conjunction with the Licensed Software, that represent the next generation 
of Licensed Software, and which the Contractor or its licensor has decided 
to make available to its customers only for an additional charge.  The 
Contractor shall make any new Releases available to Canada at the same time 
as it makes them available to its other customers and on substantially the 
same terms and conditions as set out in Canada's license with respect to 
the Licensed Software.

<strong>9601-5 06     (1992-12-01)  Hotline Service </strong>

Where the Contract provides for hotline services, the Contractor shall 
provide Canada remote access to the Contractor's personnel, to help Canada 
in answering questions with respect to the Licensed Software, during the 
hours specified in the Contract, or if not otherwise specified, during the 
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., local time at the site where the Licensed 
Programs are installed, Monday through Friday, exclusive of statutory 
holidays observed by Canada at such site.  Canada's access to the 
Contractor's personnel shall include both telephone access and access by 
means of the Contractor's electronic mail service if and when made 
available by the Contractor, provided, however, that all costs incurred by 
Canada in the use of telephone and terminal equipment shall be the 
responsibility of Canada.  By notice in writing to the Contractor, Canada 
shall appoint a user representative or representatives who shall be the 
only individuals entitled to access the hotline on behalf of Canada.  
Canada may change any such appointment by subsequent notice to the 
Contractor.

<strong>9601-5 07     (1992-12-01)  Support Charges and On-site Services</strong>

Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Contract, the monthly or 
yearly support charge specified in the Contract is inclusive of all 
software support services  described in the Contract except for on-site 
Software Error correction services.  The Contractor shall provide on-site 
services, when requested by the Technical Authority, at the hourly or daily 
labour rates specified in the Contract.  Reasonable travel and living costs 
incurred by the Contractor in connection with on-site services, if approved 
in advance by the Technical Authority, shall be reimbursed to the 
Contractor in accordance with the guidelines specified in the Contract, or, 
if no guidelines are specified, in accordance with applicable Treasury 
Board guidelines.  All such pre-approved costs shall be invoiced to Canada 
as a separate charge and may include a reasonable administrative overhead 
thereon, but shall not include any element of profit thereon.

<strong>9601-5 08     (1992-12-01)  Canada's Responsibilities</strong>

1.     Unless otherwise provided in the Contract, Canada shall maintain, 
       for the Software Support Period, a modem and associated dial-up 
       telephone line for use in connection with the software support 
       services.  Canada shall be responsible for installation, maintenance 
       and use of such equipment and associated telephone charges.  The 
       Contractor may use the modem and telephone line in connection with 
       the provision of the software support services.

2.     Unless otherwise provided in the Contract, Canada shall be 
       responsible for installation of all Software Error corrections and 
       Updates.

3.     Canada shall not modify the Licensed Software during the Software 
       Support Period without the prior approval of the Contractor, which 
       approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

4.     Canada shall protect data from loss by implementing back-up 
       procedures.

<strong>9601-5 09     (2004-12-10)  Excluded Services</strong>

The Contractor is not obligated to correct a failure of the Licensed 
Programs to operate in accordance with the Specifications if the failure 
results from:

(a)    use of the Licensed Software by Canada other than in accordance with 
       Canada's license;

(b)    conditions resulting from the use of hardware or software that is 
       supplied by a person other than the Contractor or a Subcontractor 
       and that is not in accordance with the Specifications; or

(c)    modifications to the Licensed Software other than as approved by the 
       Contractor or a Subcontractor.

<strong>9601-5 10     (1992-12-01)  Termination for Convenience</strong>

1.     The section of the General Conditions entitled "Termination for 
       Convenience" does not apply to the support services for the Licensed 
       Software.  This section applies in lieu thereof.

2.     Notwithstanding anything contained in the Contract, the Minister may, 
       at any time during the Software Support Period, by giving thirty (30) 
       days prior notice to the Contractor (hereinafter sometimes referred 
       to as a "termination notice"), terminate the Contract as regards all 
       or any part of the software support services.  Upon a termination 
       notice being given, the Contractor shall cease work in accordance 
       with and to the extent specified in the notice, but shall continue 
       to perform such part or parts of the software support services as 
       are not affected by the termination notice.  The Minister may, at 
       any time or from time to time, give one or more additional 
       termination notices with respect to any or all parts of the software 
       support services not terminated by any previous termination notice.

3.     In the event of a termination notice being given pursuant to 
       subsection 2, the Contractor shall be entitled to be paid, on the 
       basis of the Contract Price, for all software support services 
       terminated by the termination notice and performed to the date of 
       termination, but only to the extent that costs have been reasonably 
       and properly incurred for the purposes of performing the software 
       support services and only to the extent that the Contractor has not 
       already been so paid or reimbursed by Canada.  If the date of 
       termination falls on a day other than the last day of a calendar 
       month (in the case of a monthly support charge) or on a day other 
       than the last day of the support year (in the case of a yearly 
       support charge), the charge for the month or year in which 
       termination occurs will be a portion of the specified monthly or 
       yearly charge determined by multiplying the number of days in the 
       month or year to the date of termination by 1/30 or 1/365 of the 
       specified monthly or yearly charge, as the case may be.  In the case 
       of an advance payment, the Contractor shall refund the unliquidated 
       portion of the specified monthly or yearly support charge to Canada 
       upon written demand from the Contracting Authority.  The 
       unliquidated portion of the support charge shall be determined using 
       the formula set out above in this subsection.

4.     The Contractor shall have no claim for damages, compensation, loss 
       of profits, allowance or otherwise by reason of, or directly or 
       indirectly arising out of, any action taken or termination notice 
       given by the Minister under this section, except to the extent that 
       this section expressly provides.

</pre>