<pre>These procedures must be followed for any design change or additional work.

1.     When Canada requests design change or additional work:

       (a)    The Technical Authority will provide the Contracting 
              Authority with a description of the design change or 
              additional work in sufficient detail to allow the Contractor 
              to provide the following information:

              (i)    any impact of the design change or additional work on 
                     the requirement of the Contract;

              (ii)   a price breakdown of the cost (increase or decrease) 
                     associated with the implementation of the design 
                     change or the performance of the additional work using 
                     either the form PWGSC-TPSGC 1686, Quotation for Design 
                     Change or Additional Work (<a href="http://www.tpsgc-pwgsc.gc.ca/app-acq/forms/formulaires-forms-eng.html" rel="external">http://www.tpsgc-pwgsc.gc.ca
                     /app-acq/forms/formulaires-forms-eng.html</a>), or the 
                     form PWGSC-TPSGC 1379, Work Arising or New Work,  or 
                     any other form required by Canada;

              (iii)  a schedule to implement the design change or to 
                     perform the additional work and the impact on the 
                     contract delivery schedule.

       (b)    The Contracting Authority will then forward this information 
       to the Contractor.

       (c)    The Contractor will return the completed form to the 
              Contracting Authority for evaluation and negotiation.  Once 
              agreement has been reached, the form must be signed by all 
              parties in the appropriate signature blocks.  This 
              constitutes the written authorization for the Contractor to 
              proceed with the work, and the Contract will be amended 
              accordingly.

2.     When the Contractor requests design change or additional work:

       (a)    The Contractor must provide the Contracting Authority with a 
              request for design change or additional work in sufficient 
              detail for review by Canada.

       (b)    The Contracting Authority will forward the request to the 
              Technical Authority for review.

       (c)    If Canada agrees that a design change or additional work is 
              required, then the procedures detailed in paragraph 1 are to 
              be followed.

       (d)    The Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor in 
              writing if Canada determines that the design change or 
              additional work is not required.

3.     Approval

The Contractor must not proceed with any design change or additional work 
without the written authorization of the Contracting Authority.  Any work 
performed without the Contracting Authority's written authorization will be 
considered outside the scope of the Contract and no payment will be made 
for such work.



</pre>