<pre>1.     Environmental Impairment Liability insurance shall be effected by 
       the Contractor and maintained in force throughout the duration of 
       the Contract in an amount usual for a contract of this nature, but, 
       in any case, for a limit of liability NOT LESS THAN $1,000,000 per 
       accident or occurrence and in the aggregate.

2.     If this is a claims made policy and the duration of the Contract 
       exceeds the policy term; in the event of cancellation or non-renewal 
       of the policy, an Extended Claims Reporting Endorsement, minimum 
       twelve (12) months, must be secured by the Contractor.

3.     The policy must include the following endorsements:

       (a)    Additional Insured:  Canada is included as an additional 
              insured, but only with respect to liabilities that may arise 
              from the Contractor's own negligence in the performance of 
              the Contract.

       (b)    Notice of Cancellation:  The Insurer agrees to provide the 
              Contracting Authority thirty (30) days written notice of 
              policy cancellation.

       (c)    Cross Liability:  Without increasing the limit of liability, 
              the policy shall protect all insured parties to the full 
              extent of coverage provided.  Further, the policy shall apply 
              to each Insured in the same manner and to the same extent as 
              if a separate policy had been issued to each.

       (d)    Contractual Liability:  The policy shall, on a blanket basis 
              or by specific reference to this Contract, extend to assumed 
              liabilities with respect to contractual insurance provisions.

       (e)    Employees and Volunteers as Additional Insured:  All 
              employees and volunteers, on behalf of the Contractor, shall 
              be included as additional insured.

       (f)    Voluntary Medical Payments, $5,000 per person, $25,000 per 
              accident:  To provide for expenses incurred in instances of 
              minor accidental bodily injuries.

       (g)    Incidental Transit Extension:  To provide coverage for 
              incidents arising in the transport of waste material.

</pre>