<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>9601-7 00     (10/12/01)    Canada to Own Intellectual Property Rights in 
                            Foreground Information</strong>

<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Disclosure of Foreground Information
03     Canada to Own Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information
04     License to Intellectual Property Rights in Background Information
05     Right to License
06     Access to Information; Exception to Contractor Rights
07     Waiver of Moral Rights



<strong>9601-7 01     (25/05/01)    Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract,

       "Background Information" means all Technical Information that is not 
       Foreground Information and that is proprietary to or the 
       confidential information of the Contractor, its subcontractors or 
       any other supplier of the Contractor;

       "Firmware" means any computer program stored in integrated circuits, 
       read-only memory or other similar devices;

       "Foreground Information" means any Invention first conceived, 
       developed or reduced to practice as part of the Work under the 
       Contract and all other Technical Information conceived, developed or 
       produced as part of the Work under the Contract;

       "General Conditions" means General Conditions - Long Form, DSS-MAS 
       9601;

       "Intellectual Property Right" means any intellectual property right 
       recognized by the law, including any intellectual property right 
       protected through legislation (such as that governing patents, 
       copyright, industrial design, integrated circuit topography, or 
       plant breeders' rights) or arising from protection of information as 
       a trade secret or as confidential information;

       "Invention" means any new and useful art, process, machine, 
       manufacture or composition of matter, or any new and useful 
       improvement in any art, process, machine, manufacture or composition 
       of matter, whether or not patentable;

       "Software" means any computer program whether in source or object 
       code (including Firmware), any computer program documentation 
       recorded in any form or upon any medium, and any computer database, 
       and includes modifications to any of the foregoing;

       "Technical Information" means all information of a scientific, 
       technical or artistic nature relating to the Work, whether oral or 
       recorded in any form or medium and whether or not subject to 
       copyright, including but not limited to any Inventions, designs, 
       methods, processes, techniques, know-how, models, prototypes, 
       patterns, samples, schematics, experimental or test data, reports, 
       drawings, plans, specifications, photographs, collections of 
       information, manuals and any other documents, and Software.  
       Technical Information does not include data concerned with the 
       administration of the Contract by Canada or the Contractor, such as 
       internal financial or management information, unless it is a 
       deliverable under the Contract.

2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these Supplemental General Conditions shall have the meanings 
       assigned to them in the General Conditions.

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these Supplemental General Conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these Supplemental General Conditions shall prevail.

4.     The General Conditions are amended by deleting the section entitled 
       "Copyright" in its entirety.


<strong>9601-7 02     (25/05/01)    Disclosure of Foreground Information</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall promptly report and fully disclose to the 
       Minister all Foreground Information that could be Inventions, and 
       shall report and fully disclose to the Minister all other Foreground 
       Information not later than the time of completion of the Work or at 
       such earlier time as the Minister or the Contract may require.

2.     Before and after final payment to the Contractor, the Minister shall 
       have the right to examine all records and supporting data of the 
       Contractor which the Minister reasonably deems pertinent to the 
       identification of Foreground Information.


<strong>9601-7 03     (25/05/01)    Canada to Own Intellectual Property Rights in 
                            Foreground Information</strong>

1.     Without affecting any Intellectual Property Rights or interests 
       therein that have come into being prior to the Contract, all 
       Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground Information shall 
       immediately, as soon as they come into existence, vest in and remain 
       the property of Canada.  The Contractor shall have no right in or to 
       any such Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground Information 
       except any right that may be granted in writing by Canada.

2.     The Contractor shall incorporate the copyright symbol and either of 
       the following copyright notices, as appropriate, into all Foreground 
       Information that is subject to copyright, regardless of the form in 
       or medium upon which it is recorded:

       <strong>©</strong>  HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF CANADA (year)

       or

       <strong>©</strong>  SA MAJESTÉ LA REINE DU CHEF DU CANADA (year)

3.     (a)    For greater certainty, the Contractor agrees that where the 
              Work under the Contract involves the preparation of a 
              database or other compilation using information or data 
              supplied by Canada or personal information referred to in 
              paragraph (b), then the Contractor shall not use or disclose 
              any such information or data or personal information for any 
              purpose other than completing the Work under the Contract.  
              The Contractor shall not dispose of such information or data 
              or personal information except by returning it to Canada.  
              The Contractor shall comply with the General Conditions of 
              the Contract in regard to maintaining the confidentiality of 
              such information, data, or personal information.  Unless the 
              Contract otherwise expressly provides, the Contractor shall 
              deliver to Canada all such information, data, or personal 
              information, together with every copy, draft, working paper 
              and note thereof that contains such information, data, or 
              personal information upon completion or termination of the 
              Contract or at such earlier time as the Minister may require.

       (b)    For greater certainty and without limiting paragraph 3(a), if 
              the Work under the Contract involves the collection of 
              personal information as that term is defined in the <em>Privacy 
              Act</em> (R.S.C., c. P-21), then all Intellectual Property Rights 
              in and title to that personal information shall, immediately 
              upon the collection of it by the Contractor, vest in Canada, 
              and the Contractor shall have no right or interest in it.

4.     The Contractor shall execute such conveyances or other documents 
       relating to the Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground 
       Information as the minister for whose department or agency the Work 
       is being or was carried out may require, and the Contractor shall, 
       at Canada's expense, afford that minister all reasonable assistance 
       in the preparation of applications and in the prosecution of any 
       applications for registration of any Intellectual Property Right in 
       any jurisdiction, including without limitation the assistance of the 
       inventor in the case of Inventions.


<strong>9601-7 04     (10/12/01)    License to Intellectual Property Rights in 
                            Background Information</strong>

1.     Without restricting the scope of any license or other right in the 
       Background Information that Canada may otherwise hold, the 
       Contractor hereby grants to Canada, in relation to any 
       custom-designed or custom-manufactured part of the Work, a 
       non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, fully-paid and 
       royalty-free license to exercise such of the Intellectual Property 
       Rights in any Background Information incorporated into the Work or 
       necessary for the performance of the Work as may be required for the 
       following purposes:

       (a)    for the use, operation, maintenance, repair or overhaul of 
              the custom-designed or custom-manufactured parts of the Work;

       (b)    in the manufacturing of spare parts for maintenance, repair 
              or overhaul of any custom-designed or custom-manufactured 
              part of the Work by Canada if those parts are not available 
              on reasonable commercial terms to enable timely maintenance, 
              repair or overhaul;

       (c)    for disclosure to any contractor engaged by Canada (or bidder 
              for such a contract) to be used solely for a purpose set out 
              in paragraph (a) or (b), but in the case of paragraph (b), 
              only if the Contractor is unable or unwilling to provide the 
              spare parts on reasonable commercial terms and within 
              reasonable delivery times; 
       and the Contractor agrees to make any such Background Information 
       (including, in the case of Software, source code) promptly available 
       to Canada for any such purpose.

2.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, the license set out therein shall not 
       apply to any Software that is subject to detailed license conditions 
       that are set out elsewhere in the Contract. Furthermore, in the case 
       of commercial off-the-shelf software, the Contractor's obligation to 
       make the source code promptly available to Canada for a purpose set 
       out in subsection 1 shall apply only to source code that is within 
       the control of or can be obtained by the Contractor or any 
       Subcontractor, and in that event the Contractor shall, if requested 
       by Canada, make the source code available to Canada within 
       reasonable delivery times and on reasonable other commercial terms.

3.     Canada may wish to award contracts to third party contractors under 
       subsection 1, and such contract awards may follow a competitive 
       process. The Contractor agrees that Canada's license in relation to 
       the Intellectual Property Rights in Background Information includes 
       the right to disclose the Background Information to bidders for such 
       contracts, and to sublicense or otherwise authorize the use of that 
       information by any contractor engaged by Canada solely for the 
       purpose of carrying out such a contract. Canada shall require 
       bidders and the contractor not to use or disclose any Background 
       Information except as may be necessary to bid for or to carry out 
       that contract.

4.     Where the Intellectual Property Rights in any Background Information 
       are owned by a Subcontractor at any tier, the Contractor shall 
       either obtain a license from that Subcontractor that permits 
       compliance with subsection 1 or arrange for the Subcontractor to 
       convey directly to Canada the same rights by execution of the form 
       provided for that purpose by the Minister, in which case the 
       Contractor shall deliver that form to the Minister, duly completed 
       and executed by the Subcontractor, no later than the time of 
       disclosure to Canada of that Background Information.


<strong>9601-7 05     (10/12/01)    Right to License</strong>

The Contractor represents and warrants that the Contractor has, or the 
Contractor shall obtain, without delay, the right to grant to Canada the 
license to exercise the Intellectual Property Rights in the Background 
Information as required by the Contract.


<strong>9601-7 06     (25/05/01)    Access to Information; Exception to Contractor 
                            Rights</strong>

1.     Subject to the <em>Access to Information Act</em>, R.S.C., c. A-1, and to any 
       right of Canada under the Contract to release or disclose, Canada 
       shall not release or disclose outside the Government of Canada any 
       Background Information delivered to Canada under the Contract that 
       is confidential information or a trade secret of the Contractor or a 
       Subcontractor.

2.     Nothing in these terms and conditions shall be construed as limiting 
       Canada's right to exercise the Intellectual Property Rights in any 
       Background Information, or to disclose any Background Information, 
       to the extent that such information:

       (a)    is or becomes in the public domain, or to the extent that the 
              Contractor does not benefit from or ceases to benefit from 
              any intellectual property rights protection for such 
              information under legislation or at law (other than under the 
              terms of the Contract), for any reason including as a result 
              of Canada's use or disclosure of deliverables under the 
              Contract for any purpose whatever that is not expressly 
              excluded under the Contract;

       (b)    is or becomes known to Canada from a source other than the 
              Contractor, except from any source that is known to Canada to 
              be under an obligation to the Contractor not to disclose the 
              information; 

       (c)    is independently developed by or for Canada; or 

       (d)    is disclosed under compulsion of a legislative requirement or 
              any order of a court or other tribunal having jurisdiction.


<strong>9601-7 07     (25/05/01)    Waiver of Moral Rights</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall provide to Canada, at the completion of the 
       Work or at such other time as the Minister may require, a written 
       permanent waiver of moral rights (as that term is defined in the <em>
       Copyright Act</em>, R.S.C., c. C-42), in a form acceptable to the 
       Minister, from every author that contributed to any Foreground 
       Information which is subject to copyright protection and which is 
       deliverable to Canada under the terms of the Contract.

2.     If the Contractor is an author of the Foreground Information 
       referred to in subsection 1, the Contractor hereby permanently 
       waives the Contractor's moral rights in that Foreground Information.


</pre>