<pre><strong>GC 2.1 Departmental Representative's Rights and Obligations</strong>

1.     The Departmental Representative shall

       (a)    have access to the Work at all times;

       (b)    decide questions regarding what has been done or what the 
Contractor is required to do;

       (c)    decide questions regarding the acceptability of the quality 
              or quantity of any labour, Plant or Material used or consumed 
              in the execution of the Work; and

       (d)    decide questions regarding the timing and scheduling of the 
Work.

<strong>GC 2.2 Contractor's Superintendent and Workers</strong>

The Contractor shall keep a competent superintendent and capable and 
skilled workers on the site of the Work at all times during the progress of 
the Work. If, in the opinion of the Departmental Representative, the 
superintendent or the workers are deemed to be unacceptable because  of 
incompetence or improper conduct, they shall be removed from the site of 
the Work and replaced forthwith.

<strong>GC 2.3 Nondiscrimination in Hiring and Employment of Labour</strong>

1.     For the purpose of this section "Persons" include the Contractor, 
       its Subcontractors, its suppliers, and their respective employees, 
       agents, licensees and invitees, and any other Person granted access 
       to the site of the Work.

2.     The Contractor shall not refuse to employ and shall not discriminate 
       in any manner against any Person because

       (a)    of that Person's race, national origin, colour, religion, age, 
sex or marital status;

       (b)    of the race, national origin, colour, religion, age, sex, 
              marital status of any person having any relationship or 
              association with that Person;

       (c)    of a complaint that has been made or information that has 
              been given by or in respect of that Person relating to an 
              alleged failure by the Contractor to comply with paragraphs 3. 
              (a) and 3. (b) of GC 2.3.

3.     Without restricting the provisions of the Labour Conditions

       (a)    the Contractor shall, within two (2) working days immediately 
              following receipt of a written complaint alleging a breach of 
              the Labour Conditions or of subsection 2 of GC 2.3, at the 
              site of the Work

              (i)    cause to have issued a written direction to the Person 
                     or Persons named by the complainant to cease all 
                     actions that form the basis of the complaint;

              (ii)   forward a copy of the complaint and the written 
                     direction referred to in subparagraph 3. (a)(i) of GC 
                     2.3 to the Departmental Representative by registered 
                     mail; and

              (iii)  forward a copy of the complaint to the federal 
                     Department of Human Resources Development, to the 
                     attention of the appropriate Director as described in 
                     the Labour Conditions.

       (b)    the Contractor shall

              (i)    within twenty-four (24) hours immediately following 
                     receipt of a direction from the Departmental 
                     Representative to do so, cause to have removed from 
                     the site of the Work any Person or Persons whom the 
                     Departmental Representative believes is in breach of 
                     the Labour Conditions or of subsection 2 of GC 2.3; 
                     and

              (ii)   no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of the 
                     direction referred to in subparagraph 3. (b)(i) of GC 
                     2.3, cause to have the necessary action commenced to 
                     remedy the breach described in said direction.

4.     If the direction is issued pursuant to subparagraph 3. (b) of GC 2.3, 
       Canada may withhold from monies that are due and payable to the 
       Contractor or setoff pursuant to this Contract, whichever is 
       applicable, an amount representing the sum of the costs and payment 
       referred to in subsections 5 and 6 respectively of GC 2.3.  Canada 
       shall not be obliged to pay interest on any monies withheld under 
       subsection 4 of GC 2.3.

5.     If the Contractor fails to proceed in accordance with subparagraph 3. 
       (b)(ii) of GC 2.3, the Departmental Representative shall take the 
       necessary action to

       (a)    have the breach remedied; and
       (b)    determine any supplementary costs incurred by Canada.

6.     Canada may make a payment directly to the complainant from monies 
       that are due and payable to the Contractor upon receipt from the 
       complainant of

       (a)    a written award issued pursuant to the federal <em>Commercial 
              Arbitration Act</em>, R.S., 1985, c C-34.6;

       (b)    a written award issued pursuant to the <em>Canadian Human Rights 
Act</em>, R.S., 1985, c. H-6;

       (c)    a written award issued pursuant to provincial or territorial 
human rights legislation; or

       (d)    a judgment issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.

7.     If the Departmental Representative is of the opinion that the 
       Contractor has breached any of the provisions of GC 2.3, the 
       Minister may take the Work out of the Contractor's hands pursuant to 
       GC 7.1, Taking the Work Out of the Contractor's Hands.

<strong>GC 2.4 Records to be Kept by the Contractor</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall, upon entering into Contract, maintain and keep 
       intact complete records relating to the Work until the expiration of 
       two (2) years after the date that a Final Certificate of Completion 
       is issued or the final invoice is paid if no Final Certificate of 
       Completion is issued.  The Contractor shall, upon request from the 
       Departmental Representative, make said records available for copy, 
       audit or inspection to any person(s) acting on behalf of Canada.

2.     The Contractor shall cause all Subcontractors, and all other Persons 
       or entities directly or indirectly involved with the Work, to comply 
       with the requirements of subsection 1 of GC 2.4.

<strong>GC 2.5 Notices</strong>

1.     Any notice shall be in writing and may be delivered by hand, by 
       courier, by registered or regular mail, or by facsimile or other 
       electronic means that provides a paper record of the text of the 
       notice.  The notice shall be addressed to the party for whom it is 
       intended at the address in the Contract or at the last address from 
       which the sender has received notice in accordance with this section.  
       Any notice shall be deemed to be effective on the day it is received 
       at that address or four (4) days after being sent, whichever is the 
       earlier.

</pre>