<pre>1.     As a result of the recent implementation of various programs to 
       reduce the public service, offerors must provide information 
       regarding their status as former public servants in receipt of 
       either a lump sum payment or a pension, or both, pursuant to the 
       terms of the Early Departure Incentive (EDI) Program, the Early 
       Retirement Incentive (ERI) Program, the Forces Reduction Program, 
       the Executive Employment Transition Program and any other current 
       and future similar programs implemented by Treasury Board. Therefore, 
       offerors must make available the following details:

       (a)    date and amount of lump sum payment incentive;
       (b)    terms and conditions of the lump sum payment incentive 
              (including termination date);
       (c)    rate of pay on which the lump sum payment was based;
       (d)    whether or not the $5,000 exemption has been reached.

2.     In the event that a standing offer is issued to a former public 
       servant during the period covered by the lump sum payment, the 
       contract fee must be abated (reduced) by an amount corresponding to 
       the number of weeks remaining in the Offeror's lump sum payment 
       period after the beginning the Standing Offer.

3.     This reduction is subject to an exemption of a maximum of $5,000 
       (including Goods and Services Tax or Harmonized Sales Tax, as 
       appropriate) applicable to one or more contracts during the period 
       covered by the lump sum payment.

4.     For the purposes of this request for standing offers, former public 
       servants is defined as:

       (a)    an individual;
       (b)    an individual who has incorporated;
       (c)    a partnership made up of former public servants; or
       (d)    a sole proprietorship or entity where the affected individual 
              has a major interest in the entity.

5.     Former public servants in receipt of a pension will additionally be 
       subject to a fee reduction, in accordance with the Post-Employment 
       Guidelines, following completion of the period covered by the lump 
       sum payment.

6.     The information specified must be provided with, and be attached to 
       the offer, and must be provided on, or before, offer closing.  
       Failure to meet this condition will render the offer non-responsive.


</pre>