<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     The prices include packing, cartage and loading charges, unless 
       otherwise specified in this Contract.

2.     Payment will be made upon presentation to Canadian Commercial 
       Corporation (CCC) of the required documents.  Interest will not be 
       paid on any sum overdue.  Cash discounts will be calculated from the 
       actual date invoices are received with all supporting documents.

3.     (a)    <strong>Contracts for defence requirements of governments other than 
              United States (U.S.)</strong>: Public Works and Government Services 
              Canada (PWGSC) general conditions 1026A, Supplies - Firm 
              Price, or 1026B, Supplies - Cost Reimbursement, as applicable, 
              (a copy of which the Supplier acknowledges having received) 
              shall form part of this Contract.

       (b)    <strong>Contracts for requirements of the Government of the U.S.</strong>: 
              general conditions 1026A, with the exception of sections 06, 
              07, 08, 19, 21 and 28 thereof, or if applicable, the general 
              conditions 1026B, with the exception of sections 07, 08, 09, 
              23 and 24 thereof, and the sections referred to in the U.S. 
              contract copies of which the Supplier acknowledges to have 
              received, shall be applicable to and form part of the 
              Contract.

       (c)    <strong>Contracts for non defence requirements</strong>: general conditions 
              CCC50, Canadian Commercial Corporation (a copy of which the 
              Supplier acknowledges having received) shall form part of 
              this Contract.

4.     The applicable Labour provisions established by Order in Council P.C. 
       1954-2029 of December 22, 1954, (a copy of which the Supplier 
       acknowledges to have received) and all amendments thereto shall 
       apply and form part of this Contract.

5.     The supplies shall be delivered strictly in accordance with the 
       quantities, specifications, terms and conditions hereof.  Time is of 
       the essence in this Contract.  (See time of delivery indicated and 
       penalties for default set out in the general conditions).

6.     If required, the Supplier will enter into a formal agreement with 
       the Buyer containing such terms and conditions (not inconsistent 
       with the terms and conditions hereof) as may be required by the 
       Buyer.  Unless and until such a formal agreement is entered into, 
       this shall be the only contract and the terms and conditions hereof 
       shall not be altered or added to by anything not set out herein.

7.     The supplies shall be at the risk of the Supplier, and the Supplier 
       shall bear all loss or damage whatsoever from whatsoever cause 
       arising which may occur to the supplies or any part thereof up to 
       the time the same are delivered at the FOB point or FAS point or 
       other place of delivery specified in this Contract.

8.     The Buyer reserves the right to change the place of delivery shown 
       in this Contract to such other place as the Buyer may direct at any 
       time prior to actual shipment, in which case the Supplier agrees to 
       comply with such direction and shall be entitled to be reimbursed 
       for any additional costs incurred or agrees to reduce its price or 
       prices to the extent of any lesser costs involved.

9.     Where the sale of the supplies is by description and there has been 
       no examination or inspection of the supplies by or on behalf of the 
       Buyer prior to delivery thereof, and the supplies do not correspond 
       with the description, thereby involving a breach of a condition or 
       warranty, expressed or implied, then the failure to inspect or 
       reject the supplies shall not impose liability on the Buyer for such 
       supplies which are not in accordance with the description and any 
       and all costs and expenses incurred by the Buyer in respect of any 
       such supplies which may be rejected at their destination, shall be 
       borne by the Supplier.

10.    The Supplier shall procure and/or supply at no additional cost to 
       the Buyer all documents and reports which are necessary in 
       connection with the delivery and shipment of the supplies, including 
       the documents and reports specified in this Contract and such other 
       documents and reports as may be required by the Buyer.

11.    Any necessary export permits are to be obtained by the Supplier 
       prior to shipment.  Assistance is available from CCC.

12.    Inspection is to be arranged by and to the satisfaction of the 
       Inspector, if any, named in this Contract to whom all questions 
       regarding drawings, specifications, etc., must be referred, and with 
       whom arrangements for inspection must be made prior to shipment of 
       the supplies.  The Supplier shall obtain inspection reports.


</pre>