<pre>1.     (a)    The Contractor shall deposit with Canada  a security deposit 
              in the amount of $ _____ within _____ calendar days of the 
              Contract date. If, for any reason, Canada does not receive, 
              within the specified period, the Contract executed by the 
              Contractor and the security deposit in the amount set out 
              above, Canada may retain the bid security provided and may 
              accept any offer, seek new bids, negotiate a contract or not 
              accept any bids as Canada may deem advisable.

       (b)    If the security deposit is in the form of a coupon bond, the 
              bond shall have attached thereto all coupons that are 
              unmatured at the time the security deposit is given. Canada 
              may, from time to time, detach matured coupons and send them 
              to the Contractor at the address provided for by this 
              agreement for the sending of notices, unless advised 
              otherwise by the Contractor.

       (c)    If the security deposit is in the form of a bill of exchange, 
              Canada shall deposit it in an open account in the 
              Consolidated Revenue Fund. Security deposits in the form of 
              the bills of exchange that are deposited to the credit of the 
              Consolidated Revenue Fund shall bear simple interest, 
              calculated on the basis of the rates which are in effect 
              during the period that the deposit is held.

              These rates are published monthly by the Department of 
              Finance and are set to be equal to the average yield on 
              90-day Treasury Bills less 1/8 of 1 percent. Interest shall 
              be paid annually or when the security deposit is returned to 
              the Contractor, if earlier. A Contractor may, however, 
              request Canada  hold and not cash the bill of exchange, in 
              which case no interest will become payable.

2.     Canada may convert the security deposit to the use of Canada if any 
       circumstance exists which would entitle Canada to terminate the 
       Contract for default, but any such conversion shall not constitute 
       termination.

3.     Where Canada so converts the security deposit:

       (a)    the proceeds thereof shall be used to complete the Work 
              according to the terms of the Contract to the nearest extent 
              that it is feasible to do so and any balance left thereafter 
              shall be returned to the Contractor on completion of the 
              warranty period; and

       (b)    if Canada enters into an agreement outside the Contract to 
              have the Work completed, the Contractor shall:
 
              (1)    be deemed to have irrevocably abandoned the Work; and

              (2)    remain liable for the excess cost of completing the 
                     Work if the amount of the security deposit is not 
                     sufficient for such purpose. ("Excess cost" means any 
                     amount over and above the amount of the Contract Price 
                     remaining unpaid together with the amount of the 
                     security deposit.)

4.     If Canada does not convert the security deposit to the use of Canada 
       prior to the date of completion of the warranty period, Canada shall 
       return the security deposit to the Contractor within a reasonable 
       time after such date.

</pre>