<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Use the following supplemental general conditions in contracts for maintenance 
and support services for licensed software.

Use these supplemental general conditions in conjunction with one of the 
following general conditions 1026A, 1026B, 2010A, 2030, 2035 or 2040, and with 
other supplemental general conditions, as applicable.  Do not use with 2029, 
2010B and 2010C.

When more than one supplemental general conditions apply to the requirement, 
contracting officers must list the supplemental general conditions in the 
priority of documents clause in ascending order based on the identification 
number.</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Software Error Correction Services
03     Maintenance Releases
04     Media
05     Support Services
06     Support Charges and On-site Services
07     Canada's Responsibilities
08     Excluded Services

<strong>4004   01     (2008-05-12)  Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context requires otherwise,

       "General Conditions" means the general conditions that form part of 
       the Contract;

       "Maintenance Releases" means all commercially available enhancements, 
       extensions, improvements, upgrades, updates, releases, versions, 
       renames, rewrites, cross-grades, components and back grades or other 
       modifications to the Licensed Software developed or published by the 
       Contractor or its licensor; 

       "Software Error" means any software instruction or statement 
       contained in or absent from the Licensed Programs, which, by its 
       presence or absence, prevents the Licensed Programs from operating 
       in accordance with the Specifications;

       "Software Support Period" means the period specified in the Contract 
       during which the Contractor must support the Licensed Software, in 
       accordance with the conditions of the Contract.

2.      Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these supplemental general conditions have the meanings given to 
       them in the General Conditions. 

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these supplemental general conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these supplemental general conditions will prevail.

4.     If Supplemental General Conditions 4003 form part of the Contract, 
       words and expressions defined in those supplemental general 
       conditions and used in these supplemental general conditions will 
       have the meanings given to them in those supplemental general 
       conditions.

5.     If Supplemental General Conditions 4003 do not form part of the 
Contract, then,

       "Software Documentation" means all of the manuals, handbooks, user 
       guides and other human-readable material which have been provided by 
       the Contractor to Canada for use with the Licensed Programs, whether 
       provided in printed form or on magnetic tape, disk or on other Media;

       "Licensed Programs" means all of the computer programs, in 
       object-code form, that must be supported by the Contractor under the 
       Contract;

       Licensed Software" means the Licensed Programs and the Software 
       Documentation collectively;

       "Media" means the material or medium on which the Licensed Programs 
       are stored for delivery to Canada, including electronic media such 
       as magnetic disks or electronic downloads.  Media does not include 
       the Licensed Software stored on the Media.

6.     The sections of the General Conditions entitled "Ownership" and "
       Warranty" do not apply to the Licensed Software and the Media.  The 
       ownership, warranty and support provisions contained in these 
       supplemental general conditions and in Supplemental General 
       Conditions 4003, if that set forms part of the Contract, apply in 
       place of those sections.

<strong>4004   02     (2008-05-12)  Software Error Correction Services</strong>

       1.     Canada may report to the Contractor any failure of the 
       Licensed Programs to operate in accordance with the Software 
       Documentation or, if applicable, the Specifications during the 
       Software Support Period.  Canada may report failures either in 
       writing or by telephone or other remote communication.  Upon receipt 
       of a report of a failure from Canada, unless provided otherwise in 
       the Contract, the Contractor must use all reasonable efforts to 
       provide Canada within the time frames established in subsections 2 
       and 3, with a correction of the Software Error which caused the 
       failure.  Any such software correction must cause the Licensed 
       Programs to meet the Software Documentation or, if applicable, the 
       Specifications during the Software Support Period.  The Contractor 
       must use all reasonable efforts to provide permanent corrections for 
       all Software Errors and the Contractor warrants that the Licensed 
       Software will meet the functional and performance criteria set out 
       in the Specifications.  All Software Error corrections will become 
       part of the Licensed Software and will be subject to the conditions 
       of Canada's license with respect to the Licensed Software.

       2.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, the Contractor 
       must respond to a report of a Software Error in accordance with the 
       severity of the Software Error, as detailed in subsection 3.  The 
       severity will be reasonably determined by Canada, and communicated 
       to the Contractor, based on the following definitions:

       Severity 1:   indicates total inability to use a Licensed Program, 
                     resulting in a critical impact on user objectives;

       Severity 2:   indicates ability to use a Licensed Program but user 
                     operation is severely restricted;

       Severity 3:   indicates ability to use a Licensed Program with 
                     limited functions which are not critical to overall 
                     user operations;

       Severity  4:  indicates that the problem has been by-passed or 
                     temporarily corrected and is not affecting user 
                     operations.

3.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, the Contractor must use 
       reasonable efforts to correct Software Errors as follows:

       Severity 1:   within twenty-four (24) hours of notification by 
       Canada;

       Severity<em> </em>2:   within seventy-two (72) hours of notification by 
       Canada;

       Severity 3:   within fourteen (14) days of notification by Canada;

       Severity<em> </em>4:   within ninety (90) days of notification by Canada.

4.     If Canada reports a Software Error to the Contractor, Canada must 
       give the Contractor reasonable access to the computer system on 
       which the Licensed Program resides, and must provide such 
       information as the Contractor may reasonably request, including 
       sample output and other diagnostic information, in order to permit 
       the Contractor to expeditiously correct the Software Error.

<strong>4004   03     (2008-05-12)  Maintenance Releases</strong><strong></strong>

During the Software Support Period, the Contractor must provide to Canada 
all Maintenance Releases, in object-code form, at no additional cost.  All 
Maintenance Releases will become part of the Licensed Software and will be 
subject to the conditions of Canada's license with respect to the Licensed 
Software. Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, Canada will receive at 
least one Maintenance Release during any twelve (12) month maintenance 
period.

<strong>4004   04     (2008-05-12)  Media</strong><strong></strong>

1.     The Contractor must provide to Canada all Software Error corrections, 
       Maintenance Releases and updates on Media that are free of defects 
       and of computer viruses, and which are compatible with the computer 
       systems on which the Licensed Programs are installed.

2.     Canada will own the Media provided to Canada in the performance of 
       the software support services upon delivery to and acceptance of the 
       Media by or on behalf of Canada.  For the purposes of this 
       subsection, "Media" does not include the Licensed Software stored on 
       the Media.

<strong>4004   05     (2008-05-12)  Support Services </strong><strong></strong>

If the Contract provides for support services, the Contractor must provide 
to Canada access to the Contractor's personnel, to help Canada in answering 
questions with respect to the Licensed Software, during the hours specified 
in the Contract.  If the hours are not specified in the Contract, this 
access to the Contractor's personnel must be between the hours of  8:00 a.m. 
to 5:00 p.m., local time, at the site where the Licensed Programs are 
installed, Monday through Friday, exclusive of statutory holidays observed 
by Canada at such site.  Canada's access to the Contractor's personnel must 
include telephone, fax, e-mail and Internet access and, if expressly 
provided in the Contract, on-site and Swift Action Tactical (SWAT) services.  
If applicable and if specified in the Contract, Canada will, by notice in 
writing to the Contractor, appoint a user representative or representatives 
who will be the only individual(s) entitled to access the support services 
on behalf of Canada.  Canada may change any such appointment by subsequent 
notice to the Contractor.

<strong>4004   06     (2008-05-12)  Support Charges and On-site Services</strong><strong></strong>

Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, the monthly or yearly support 
charge specified in the Contract is inclusive of all software support 
services described in the Contract, except for On-site and SWAT response 
and Software Error correction services.  The Contractor must provide 
on-site services, when requested by Canada, at the hourly or daily labour 
rates specified in the Contract.  Reasonable travel and living costs 
incurred by the Contractor in connection with on-site services, if approved 
in advance by Canada, will be reimbursed to the Contractor in accordance 
with the guidelines specified in the Contract, or, if no guidelines are 
specified, in accordance with applicable Treasury Board guidelines.   All 
such pre-approved costs must be invoiced to Canada as a separate charge.
<strong>4004   07     (2008-05-12)  Canada's Responsibilities</strong><strong></strong>

1.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, Canada will maintain, for 
       the Software Support Period, a telephone line and Internet access 
       for use in connection with the software support services.  Canada 
       will be responsible for the installation, maintenance and use of 
       such equipment and associated telephone charges.  The Contractor may 
       use the telephone line and electronic mail in connection with the 
       provision of the software support services.

2.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, Canada will be 
       responsible for the installation of all Software Error corrections 
       and Maintenance Releases and upgrades.

3.     Canada will protect data from loss by implementing back-up 
procedures.

<strong>4004   08     (2008-05-12)  Excluded Services</strong><strong></strong>

The Contractor is not obligated to correct a failure of the Licensed 
Programs to operate in accordance with the Specifications if the failure 
results from:

       (a)    use of the Licensed Software by Canada that is not  in 
       accordance with Canada's license;
       
       (b)    the use of hardware or software that is supplied by a person 
       other than the Contractor or a subcontractor and that is not in 
       accordance with the Specifications; or
       
       (c)    modifications to the Licensed Software that are not approved 
       by the Contractor or a subcontractor.


</pre>