<pre>Unless otherwise stated herein, the following shall apply:

1.     The Contractor shall be responsible for:

       (a)    Delivery to the destination specified in the contract.

       (b)    Pick up at time of expiry or termination of the contract.

       (c)    Pick up and return of vehicle for servicing.

       (d)    Vehicle licensing, permits or exemptions.

       (e)    Full maintenance due to normal wear and tear.

       (f)    Replacement of tires and tire repairs.

       (g)    Provision of snow tires when requested.

       (h)    Supply of another licensed vehicle of the same type and size 
              or replace a specific vehicle when a unit is taken out of 
              service for repairs for a period greater than twenty-four (24) 
              hours.  Down time will be considered when computing the 
              monthly charges.

       (i)    Provision of bulkheads separating cargo area from the driver/
              passenger area in all cargo vans.

       (j)    All warranty servicing. Warranty servicing shall mean the 
              supply of parts normally provided by the manufacturer's 
              warranty together with the labour necessary to install such 
              parts.  The warranty period shall in no case cover a period 
              of less than twelve (12) months.  The warranty service as 
              outlined above shall be made available at any dealer for the 
              make of vehicle rented, within Canada.

2.     The Consignee shall be responsible for:

       (a)    the supply of fuel;
       (b)    oil between changes;
       (c)    washing;
       (d)    return to the Contractor, all vehicle parts replaced, 
              including damaged or worn tires.

(3).   General:

       (a)    Repair routing is to be given to the consignee on acceptance 
              of vehicle.  Authorization to proceed with repairs is to be 
              obtained from the Contractor.  The cost of replacements which 
              are made will be credited to the consignee's account by the 
              cContractor upon receipt by the Contractor of a paid invoice 
              covering such replacement. 
       (b)    Only the terms and conditions referenced in this document 
              shall apply.

</pre>