<pre><strong>GC 1.1 (30/05/03)    Definitions</strong>

Average Bank Rate means the simple arithmetic mean of the Bank Rate in 
effect at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time each day during the calendar 
month which immediately precedes the calendar month in which payment is 
made.

Bank Rate means the rate of interest established from time to time by the 
Bank of Canada as the minimum rate at which it makes short term advances to 
members of the Canadian Payments Association.

Canada, Crown, Her Majesty or the Government means Her Majesty the Queen in 
right of Canada;

Construction Contract means a contract entered into between Canada and a 
Contractor for the construction of the Project;

Construction Contract Award Price means the price at which a Construction 
Contract is awarded to a Contractor;

Construction Cost Estimate means an anticipated amount for which a 
Contractor will execute the construction of the Project;

Construction Cost Limit means that portion of the total amount of Project 
funds which shall not be exceeded on construction of the Project;

Consultant means the party which submitted a responsive proposal which was 
accepted by Canada to perform the Consultant Services under the Agreement, 
and includes the officer or employee of the Consultant identified in 
writing by the Consultant;

Contracting Authority means the party identified on the front cover page 
responsible for the establishment of the agreement, its administration and 
any contractual issues related to it;

Contractor means a person, firm or corporation with whom Canada enters, or 
intends to enter, into a Construction Contract;

Cost Plan means the allocation of proposed costs among the various elements 
of the Project, as described in the Project Brief or Terms of Reference;

Days means continuous calendar days, including weekends and statutory 
public holidays;

Departmental Representative means the officer or employee of Canada 
identified to the consultant in writing by a duly authorized departmental 
officer to perform the Departmental Representative's duties under the 
Agreement;

Mediation is a process of dispute resolution in which a neutral third party 
assists the parties involved in a dispute to negotiate their own settlement;

Minister includes a person acting for, or if the office is vacant, in place 
of, the Minister of Public Works and Government Services and the Minister's 
successors in the office.  Minister also includes the Minister's lawful 
deputy and any of the ministers or their representatives appointed for the 
purpose of the Agreement;

Payroll Cost means the actual cost of any person employed by the Consultant 
or the Consultant's Sub-Consultants as a staff member, including principals 
employed as staff members, and includes an amount for salary, statutory 
holidays, vacations with pay, unemployment insurance premiums and worker's 
compensation contributions where applicable, pension plan contributions, 
sick time allowance, medical/dental insurance premiums, and such other 
employee benefits as may be approved by the Departmental Representative;
 
Project Brief or Terms of Reference means a document describing in 
sufficient detail the Services to be provided by the Consultant to permit 
the Consultant to proceed with the Services and may include general project 
information, scope of the work, site and design data, and time plan, 
specifically related to the Project;

Project Schedule means a time plan, including the sequence of tasks, 
milestone dates and critical dates which must be met for the implementation 
of the planning, design and construction phases of the Project;

Services means the services provided by the Consultant and the services 
required by the project, as set forth in the Agreement;

Specialist Consultant means any Architect, Professional Engineer, or other 
specialist, other than the Consultant, engaged by Canada directly or, at 
the specific request of Canada, engaged by the Consultant;

Sub-Consultant means any Architect, Professional Engineer, or other 
specialist engaged by the Consultant for the Services included in the 
Agreement;

Technical Documentation includes designs, reports, photographs, physical 
models, surveys, drawings, specifications, computer software developed for 
the purpose of the Project, computer printouts, design notes, calculations, 
CADD (Computer-aided Design and Drafting) files, and other data, 
information and material, prepared, computed, drawn, or produced and 
operating and maintenance manuals either prepared or collected for the 
Project. 

<strong>GC 1.2 (30/05/03)    Interpretations</strong>

1.     Words importing the singular only also include the plural, and vice 
       versa, where the context requires;

2.     Headings or notes in the Agreement shall not be deemed to be part 
       thereof, or be taken into consideration in its interpretation;

3.     "Herein", "hereby", "hereof", "hereunder" and similar expressions 
       refer to the Agreement as a whole and not to any particular 
       subdivision or part thereof.

<strong>GC 1.3 (30/05/03)    Successors and Assigns</strong>

The Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the 
parties hereto and their lawful heirs, executors, administrators, 
successors and assigns.

<strong>GC 1.4 (30/05/03)    Assignment</strong>

1.     The Agreement shall not be assigned, in whole or in part, by the 
       Consultant without the prior  written consent of the Minister.  
       After a request for assignment has been received from the Consultant, 
       a decision shall be given by the Minister to the Consultant in a 
       timely manner.

2.     An assignment of the Agreement without such consent shall not 
       relieve the Consultant from any obligation under the Agreement, or 
       impose any liability upon Canada or the Minister.

<strong>GC 1.5 (30/05/03)    National or Departmental Security</strong>

1.     If the Departmental Representative is of the opinion that the 
       Project is of a class or kind that involves national or departmental 
       security, the Consultant may be required:

       (a)    to provide any information concerning persons employed for 
              purposes of the Agreement unless prohibited by law;
 
       (b)    to remove any person from the Project and its site if that 
              person cannot meet the prescribed security requirements; and

       (c)    to retain the Project Technical Documentation while in the 
              Consultant's possession in a manner specified by the 
              Departmental Representative.

2.     Notwithstanding the provision of GC 4, if the Project is of a class 
       or kind that involves national or departmental security, the 
       Consultant shall not issue, disclose, discard or use the Project 
       Technical Documentation on another project without the written 
       consent of the Departmental Representative.


<strong>GC 1.6 (12/12/03)    Conflict of Interest</strong>

1.     The Consultant declares that the Consultant has no pecuniary 
       interest in the business of any third party that would cause, or 
       seem to cause, a conflict of interest in carrying out the Services, 
       and should such an interest be acquired during the life of the 
       Agreement, the Consultant shall declare it immediately to the 
       Departmental Representative.

2.     The Consultant shall not have any tests or investigations carried 
       out by any persons, firms, or corporations, that may have a direct 
       or indirect financial interest in the results of those tests or 
       investigations.

3.     The Consultant shall not submit, either directly or indirectly, a 
       bid for any Construction Contract related to the Project.

4.     No individual for whom the post-employment provisions of the 
       Conflict of Interest and Post-Employment Code for Public Office 
       Holders (1994) or the Values and Ethics Code for the Public Service 
       (2003) apply, shall derive a direct benefit from this Agreement 
       unless that individual is in compliance with the applicable 
       post-employment provisions. 

5.     The Consultant shall not be eligible to compete as a consultant or 
       sub-consultant for a project which may result from the provision of 
       the Services if the Consultant is involved in the development of a 
       Project Brief or Terms of Reference, a Request for Proposal or 
       similar documents for such project.

<strong>GC 1.7 (30/05/03)    Status of Consultant</strong>

1.     The Consultant is engaged under the Agreement as an independent 
       Consultant for the sole purpose of providing Services.

2.     Neither the Consultant nor any of the Consultant's employees shall 
       be regarded as employees or agents of Canada.

3.     The Consultant, as employer, agrees to be solely responsible for any 
       and all payments and deductions required to be made by law, 
       including those required for Canada or Quebec Pension Plans, 
       Employment Insurance, Worker's Compensation, and Income Tax.

<strong>GC 1.8 (30/05/03)    Members of House of Commons</strong>

No member of the House of Commons shall be admitted to any share or part of 
the Agreement, or to any benefit that may arise therefrom.

<strong>GC 1.9 (30/05/03)    Entire Agreement</strong>

The Agreement constitutes the entire arrangement between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter of the Agreement, and supersedes all previous 
negotiations, communications and other arrangements relating to it, unless 
incorporated by reference herein.

<strong>GC 1.10       (30/05/03)    Lobbyist Certification - Contingency Fees</strong>

1.     The Consultant certifies that it has not directly or indirectly paid 
       or agreed to pay and covenants that it will not directly or 
       indirectly pay a contingency fee for the solicitation, negotiation 
       or obtaining of the Agreement to any person other than an employee 
       acting in the normal course of the employee's duties.

2.     All accounts and records pertaining to payments of fees or other 
       compensation for the solicitation, obtaining or negotiation of the 
       Agreement shall be subject to the accounts and audit provisions of 
       the Agreement.

3.     If the Consultant certifies falsely under this section or is in 
       default of the obligations contained therein, the Minister may 
       either take the services out of the Consultant's hands in accordance 
       with the conditions of the Agreement or recover from the Consultant 
       by way of reduction to the Basic Fee or otherwise the full amount of 
       the contingency fee.

4.     In this clause,

       "Contingency fee" means any payment or other compensation that is 
       contingent upon or is calculated upon the basis of a degree of 
       success in soliciting or obtaining a Government Agreement or 
       negotiating the whole or any part of its term.

       "Employee" means a person with whom the Consultant has an employer/
       employee relationship.

       "Person" includes an individual or group of individuals, a 
       corporation, a partnership, an organization and an association and, 
       without restricting the generality of the foregoing, includes any 
       individual who is required to file a return with the registrar 
       pursuant to section 5 of the<em> Lobbyist Registration Act</em>, R.S. 1985 c.44 
       (4th Supplement) as the same may be amended from time to time.

<strong>GC 1.11       (30/05/03)    Changes in Taxes and Duties</strong>

1.     In the event of any change (including a new imposition or repeal), 
       on or after the date of submission of the proposal, of any tax, 
       customs or other duty, charge, or any similar imposition that is 
       imposed under sales or excise tax legislation of the Government of 
       Canada and which affects the cost to the Consultant of the Services, 
       the amount payable to the Consultant shall be adjusted to reflect 
       the increase or decrease in the cost to the Consultant.

2.     There shall be no adjustment under subsection 1 in respect of any 
       change that would increase the cost to the Consultant of the 
       Services if public notice of the change was given before the 
       proposal submission date in sufficient detail to permit the 
       Consultant to have calculated the effect on the Consultant's cost 
       before that date.

3.     The Consultant shall forward to the Minister a certified statement 
       showing the increase or decrease in cost to the Consultant that is 
       directly attributable to the change in the imposition.  The Minister 
       or the Departmental Representative may verify the increase or 
       decrease in cost by audit.

<strong>GC 1.12       (12/12/03)    Provincial Sales Tax</strong>

1.     Federal government departments and agencies are not required to pay 
       any ad valorem sales tax levied by the province in which the taxable 
       goods or services are delivered.  This exemption is provided to 
       federal government departments and agencies under the authority of 
       the following:

       (a)    Provincial Sales Tax (PST) Exemption Licence Numbers, for the 
              provinces of: 
              Prince Edward Island OP-10000-250
              Ontario              11708174G
              Manitoba      390-516-0
              British Columbia     005521

       (b)    An Exemption Certification, for Quebec, Saskatchewan, the 
              Yukon Territory, and the Northwest Territories, which 
              certifies that the property and/or services ordered/purchased 
              hereby are for the use of, and are being purchased by the 
              federal government with Canada funds, and are therefore not 
              subject to provincial/territorial sales and consumption taxes.

2.     Currently, in Alberta, the Yukon Territory, and the Northwest 
       Territories, provincial sales taxes do not apply to goods or 
       services delivered to the federal government.

3.     The Consultant is not exempt from paying PST under the above 
       Exemption Licence Numbers or Exemption Certification.  The 
       Consultant is required to pay PST on taxable goods or services used 
       or consumed in the performance of the Contract (as per appropriate 
       provincial legislation), including material incorporated into real 
       property.

<strong>GC 1.13       (30/05/03)    Goods and Services Taxes (GST)/Harmonized Sales 
                            Tax (HST)</strong>

1.     All prices and amounts of money in the agreement are exclusive of 
       GST/HST, as applicable, unless otherwise indicated.

2.     Any amount levied in respect of the GST/HST will be billed as a 
       separate item in invoices and will be paid  in addition to the 
       amount approved for Services performed, in accordance with GC 5.3

3.     The Consultant agrees to remit to the Canada Customs and Revenue 
       Agency any amounts of GST and HST paid or due.

<strong>GC 1.14       (30/05/03)    Tax Withholding of 15 Percent</strong>

If the Consultant is a non-resident entity as defined in the<em> Income Tax Act</em>, 
the Consultant acknowledges and agrees that, pursuant to the provisions of 
that Act, Canada is empowered to withhold an amount of 15 percent of the 
price to be paid to the Consultant for services performed in Canada.  This 
amount will be held on account with respect to any liability for taxes 
which may be owed to Canada.

<strong>GC 1.15       (30/05/03)    Joint and Several Liability</strong>

If at any time there is more than one legal entity constituting the 
Consultant, their covenants under the Agreement shall be considered to be 
joint and several and apply to each and every entity.  If the Consultant is 
or becomes a partnership or joint venture, each legal entity who is a 
member or becomes a member of the partnership or joint venture or its 
successors is and continues to be jointly and severally liable for the 
performance of the services and all the covenants of the Consultant 
pursuant to this Agreement, whether or not that entity ceases to be a 
member of the partnership, joint venture or its successor.

</pre>