<pre>1.     The Contractor shall collect a sample from the first batch of each 
       of the products that will be supplied under the Contract.  The 
       sample shall consist of a group of items or portion of products of 
       sufficient size to conduct the testing required.  The Contractor 
       shall split the sample into two equal portions.  One portion shall 
       be tested by the Contractor's test facility.  The other portion 
       shall be tested by a facility meeting one of the following criteria:

       (a)    an independent, arms length third party laboratory accredited 
              by the Standards Council of Canada (or other nationally or 
              internationally recognised laboratory accrediting body) to 
              conduct the tests identified in the product specification(s) 
              or

       (b)    an independent, arms length third party laboratory operating 
              a ISO 17025:1999 system, and participates regularly in a 
              recognised proficiency testing program for the contracted 
              product(s).

2.     Each portion shall be tested to all requirements detailed in the 
       product specification(s).  The Contractor does not have to conduct 
       tests identified by the specification(s) as qualification tests only.  
       The Contractor does not have to conduct a test on the first batch of 
       product if the above program for sampling and testing has been 
       conducted within six (6) months of the date of this Contract.

3.     The Contractor shall, on receipt of the third party test report, 
       compare the results received with those of the Contractor's own test 
       facility.  Any deviation between results obtained by the two test 
       facilities in excess of the reproducibility of the test methods 
       involved, shall be investigated, the root cause determined and 
       corrective action taken.

4.     The Contractor shall repeat the above program for sampling and 
       testing at least once every six (6) months during the life of the 
       Contract.

5.     The purpose of this correlation testing is to verify the quality of 
       the contracted product(s) and to validate the capability of the 
       Contractor's testing facility.  The test report(s) received from the 
       third party laboratory, the Contractor's test reports for the same 
       batch(es) of contracted product(s), reports of any investigations of 
       deviations of the results obtained by the two laboratories and any 
       corrective actions taken, shall be made available to the Quality 
       Assurance Representative on request.  Test validation shall be 
       conducted at Contractor's expense.



</pre>