<pre><strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

RM 01  Interpretation
RM 02  Application
RM 03  Communications
RM 04  Appointment of Project Mediator
RM 05  Confidentiality
RM 06  Time and Place of Mediation
RM 07  Representation
RM 08  Procedure
RM 09  Settlement Agreement
RM 10  Termination of Mediation
RM 11  Costs
RM 12  Subsequent Proceedings


<strong>RM 01  (13/12/02)    Interpretation</strong>

1.1    Terms defined in the Contract and used in these Rules shall have the 
       meaning assigned to them in the Contract.

1.2    "Dispute Resolution Coordinator" or "Coordinator" means the Director, 
       Contract Claims Resolution Board, Public Works and Government 
       Services Canada, Place du Portage Phase III, 7A1, 11 Laurier Street, 
       Hull, Quebec K1A 0S5. 

<strong>RM 02  (13/12/02)    Application</strong>

2.1    These Rules apply to mediation conducted under the Contract.  By 
       mutual agreement, the parties may change or make additions to the 
       Rules. 

<strong>RM 03  (13/12/02)    Communications</strong>

3.1    Written communications pursuant to these Rules shall be given in the 
       same manner as written notices are to be given pursuant to the 
       Contract.

<strong>RM 04  (13/12/02)    Appointment of Project Mediator</strong>

4.1    The parties to the Contract may, by mutual consent, at any time 
       after entry into the Contract, appoint a mediator (the "Project 
       Mediator") to conduct mediation proceedings in accordance with these 
       Rules for Mediation of Construction Disputes, in regard to any 
       dispute which may arise with regard to the interpretation, 
       application or administration of the Contract.  In this case, they 
       shall jointly enter into a contract with the appointed Project 
       Mediator, which contract shall be in a form drafted by the 
       Coordinator and agreed to by the parties.

4.2    If the parties do not appoint a Project Mediator pursuant to RM 4.1, 
       the parties shall appoint a Project Mediator within seventeen (17) 
       working days following receipt of a written notice from the 
       Contractor, in accordance with DR 4.3 of Dispute Resolution 
       Conditions "G", requesting that mediated negotiations be undertaken 
       in accordance with these Rules to assist the parties to reach 
       agreement on any outstanding issues which may be in dispute.  Any 
       contract entered into with the appointed Project Mediator shall meet 
       the requirements as set out for the contract described in RM 4.1 of 
       these rules.
 
4.3    When mediation is requested by the Contractor pursuant to the terms 
       of the Contract, if the parties have previously entered into a 
       contract with a Project Mediator, the parties shall within two (2) 
       days send to both the Project Mediator and the Coordinator 

       4.3.1  a copy of the written notice of dispute requesting formal 
              negotiation under the terms of the Contract, 

       4.3.2  a copy of the Engineer's written position in relation to the 
              notice, the issues in contention and the relevant provisions 
              of the contract, and

       4.3.3  a copy of the Contractor's written request for mediation 
              required under the terms of the Contract.

4.4    If the parties have not agreed on a Project Mediator, the parties 
       shall forthwith provide the Coordinator with the written materials 
       referred to in 4.3.1, 4.3.2 and 4.3.3 of RM 4.3 together with a 
       request that the Coordinator assist in the appointment of a mutually 
       acceptable Project Mediator in accordance with these Rules.

4.5    Within five (5) working days following receipt of the request and 
       materials referred to in RM 4.4, the Coordinator shall provide the 
       parties with a list of qualified private sector mediators obtained 
       from an independent and impartial entity, together with instructions 
       to each party to individually and confidentially select and rank 
       their preferred and fully acceptable choices of mediator in 
       descending order.  Each mediator listed shall be impartial and 
       independent of the parties, and shall be an experienced and skilled 
       commercial mediator, preferably with knowledge of the subject matter 
       of the dispute.

4.6    Within ten (10) working days of receipt of the list referred to in 
       RM 4.5 each party shall comply with the instructions accompanying 
       the list(s) and shall deliver the completed listing to the 
       Coordinator. 

4.7    Within two (2) working days following receipt of the completed 
       listings, the Coordinator shall select the highest common ranked 
       mediator to act as Project Mediator for the purposes of the contract.

4.8    In the event of a tie, the Coordinator shall consult both parties to 
       re-evaluate their rankings in order to assist the Coordinator in 
       selecting a Project Mediator acceptable to both parties.  If the 
       parties cannot agree upon a Project Mediator, the Coordinator shall 
       forthwith provide the parties with a second list of mediators and 
       the procedure shall be repeated. 

4.9    If the parties have not previously entered into a contract with a 
       mutually acceptable Project Mediator, the Coordinator shall use 
       reasonable efforts to negotiate a contract with a mutually 
       acceptable Project Mediator on behalf of the parties, which contract 
       shall incorporate or otherwise comply with the provisions of these 
       Rules.  If negotiations are unsuccessful, or if for other reason the 
       individual is unwilling or unable to enter into  a contract to act 
       as Project Mediator, the Coordinator shall repeat the process with 
       the second-highest common ranked mediator. 

4.10   The parties agree that, upon successful completion of the 
       negotiations referred to in RM 4.9, they shall jointly enter into an 
       agreement with the selected Project Mediator, which agreement shall 
       be in a form drafted by the Coordinator and agreed to by the parties.

4.11   Upon execution of the agreement with the Project Mediator referred 
       to in RM 4.10, the Coordinator shall provide the Project Mediator 
       with copies of the documents referred to in RM 4.3 above.
 
<strong>RM 05  (13/12/02)    Confidentiality</strong>

5.1    Subject to RM 5.2, and unless otherwise agreed in writing by the 
       parties, the Project Mediator, the parties and their counsel or 
       representatives shall keep confidential all matters and documents 
       disclosed during mediation proceedings except where the disclosure 
       is necessary for any implementation of any agreement reached or is 
       required by law.

5.2    Evidence that is independently admissible or discoverable in any 
       arbitral or judicial proceeding shall not be rendered inadmissible 
       or non-discoverable by virtue of its use in mediation proceedings.

5.3    Neither party shall make transcripts, minutes or other records of a 
       mediation conference.

5.4    The personal notes and written opinions of the Project Mediator made 
       in relation to mediation are in the Project Mediator's sole 
       possession and control, are confidential, and may not be used in any 
       subsequent proceeding between the parties or where they are opposed 
       in interest without the express written permission of the parties.

5.5    All information exchanged during mediation procedures, by whatever 
       means, shall be without prejudice and shall be treated as 
       confidential by the parties and their representatives, unless 
       otherwise required by law.

<strong>RM 06  (13/12/02)    Time and Place of Mediation</strong>

6.1    The Project Mediator, in consultation with the parties shall set the 
       date, time and place of any mediation conference as soon as possible, 
       bearing in mind that, subject to agreement to the contrary between 
       the parties, only ten (10) working days are available within which 
       to attempt to settle the dispute.

<strong>RM 7   (13/12/02)    Representation</strong>

7.1    Representatives of the parties may be accompanied at the mediation 
       conference by legal counsel or any other person.

7.2    If the Project Mediator is a lawyer, the Project Mediator shall not 
       provide legal advice to a party during the course of the mediation 
       conference, but may recommend that a party obtain independent legal 
       advice before finalizing a settlement agreement.

<strong>RM 8   (13/12/02)    Procedure</strong>

8.1    The parties agree to an exchange of all facts, information and 
       documents upon which they intend to rely in any oral or written 
       presentation during the mediation.  This exchange shall be completed 
       no later than two (2) working days prior to the date set for a 
       mediation conference. 

8.2    The Project Mediator shall be free to meet with the parties 
       individually during a mediation conference if the Project Mediator 
       is of the opinion that this may improve the chances of a mediated 
       settlement, and either party may request such an individual meeting 
       at any time.

8.3    The parties may agree to extend the ten (10) working days available 
       for settlement of the dispute through mediation, and the Project 
       Mediator shall record that agreement in writing. 

<strong>RM 09  (13/12/02)    Settlement Agreement</strong>

9.1    The parties shall record in writing any settlement agreement reached, 
       with sufficient detail to ensure a clear understanding of 

       9.1.1  the issues resolved

       9.1.2  any obligations assumed by each party including criteria to 
              determine if and when these obligations have been met, and
       9.1.3  the consequences of failure to comply with the agreement 
              reached.

9.2    The parties agree to carry out the terms of a settlement agreement 
       as soon as possible and, in any event, within any time periods 
       specified in the agreement.

<strong>RM 10  (13/12/02)    Termination of Mediation</strong>

10.1   Either party may withdraw from mediation at any time without reason 
       and, in that event, the Project Mediator shall give each party a 
       written notice terminating the mediation and establishing the 
       effective date of termination.

10.2   If, in the opinion of the Project Mediator, either party fails to 
       mediate in good faith or fails to comply with the terms of these 
       Rules, or if the Project Mediator, at any time during mediation, is 
       of the opinion that further negotiations will fail to resolve the 
       issues outstanding, the Project Mediator may terminate the 
       negotiations by providing the parties with a written notice of 
       termination, stating therein the Project Mediator's reasons for the 
       termination, and the effective date of termination.

10.3   If a dispute has not been resolved within the 10-day period set out 
       in DR 5.3 of Dispute Resolution Conditions "G" or such other longer 
       period as may have been agreed to by the parties, the Project 
       Mediator shall terminate the mediation by giving written notice to 
       the parties stating the effective date of termination.

<strong>RM 11  (13/12/02)    Costs</strong>

11.1   The parties agree that they will each be responsible for the costs 
       of their own representatives and advisors and associated travel and 
       living expenses.  Fees and expenses of the Project Mediator and all 
       administrative costs of mediation, such as the cost of the meeting 
       room(s), if any, shall be borne equally by the parties.

<strong>RM 12  (13/12/02)    Subsequent Proceedings</strong>

12.1   The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in any 
       arbitral or judicial proceeding, whether or not such proceeding 
       relates to the subject matter of mediation, 

       12.1.1 any document of other parties which are not otherwise 
              producible in those proceedings,

       12.1.2 any views expressed or suggestions made by any party in 
              respect of a possible settlement of issues,

       12.1.3 any admission made by any party in the course of mediation 
              unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party,

       12.1.4 the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make 
              or accept a proposal or recommendation for settlement.

12.2   The Project Mediator shall neither represent nor testify on behalf 
       of either of the parties in any subsequent investigation, action or 
       proceeding relating to the issues in mediation proceedings.
 
12.3   The Project Mediator shall not be subpoenaed to give evidence 
       relating to

       12.3.1 the Project Mediator's role in mediation, or 

       12.3.2 the matters or issues in mediation

       in any subsequent investigation, action or proceeding and the 
       parties agree to vigorously oppose any effort to have the Mediator 
       so subpoenaed. 


</pre>