<pre><strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

<strong>Part I - Conditions Common to Hardware Transactions</strong>
01     Interpretation
02     Hardware Must be New

<strong>Part II - Conditions Common to Lease and Purchase</strong>
03     Delivery
04     Special Site Delivery or Installation Preparation Requirements
05     Installation, Integration and Configuration
06     Certification of Electrical Equipment
07     Hardware Documentation
08     Minimum Availability Level Requirement
09     Availability-Level Testing Before Acceptance
10     Acceptance
11     Firmware
12     Total System Responsibility

<strong>Part III - Additional Conditions: Purchase</strong>
13     Ownership of the Purchased Hardware and Risk of Loss or Damage
14     Warranty for Purchased Hardware

<strong>Part IV - Additional Conditions: Lease</strong>
15     Ownership of Leased Hardware
16     Lease Period
17     Warranty for Leased Hardware
18     Termination of Lease for Convenience
19     Risk of Loss or Damage to Leased Hardware
20     Modifications to Leased Hardware
21     Relocation of Leased Hardware
22     De-installation and Removal of Leased Hardware
23     Quiet Enjoyment
24     Right to Withhold Lease Payments

<strong>Part V - Additional Conditions: Maintenance</strong>
25     Hardware Maintenance Service
26     Classes of Maintenance Service


<strong>Part I - Conditions Common to Hardware Transactions</strong>

<strong>4001   01     (2008-12-12)  Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context requires otherwise, 

       "Delivery Date" means the date specified in the Contract for the 
       delivery of the Hardware. If no date is specified elsewhere in the 
       Contract, the Delivery Date is for any initial delivery, thirty (30) 
       days from the date of the Contract; for any Hardware purchased or 
       leased under an option, thirty (30) days from the date the option is 
       exercised; and if the Contract provides for multiple orders, thirty 
       (30) days from the date of each order;

       "Downtime" means the time, measured in hours and whole minutes, 
       during which the Hardware is not available for Fully Functional 
       Operation during User Time because of a malfunction of the Hardware. 
       Downtime starts when Canada notifies the Contractor that the 
       Hardware is not available for Fully Functional Operation and ends 
       when the malfunction has been corrected and the Contractor notifies 
       Canada that the Hardware has been restored to Fully Functional 
       Operation, unless Canada then notifies the Contractor that the 
       Hardware is still not available for Fully Functional Operation;

       "Firmware" means any computer programs stored in integrated circuits, 
       read-only memory, or other similar devices within the Hardware;

       "Fully Functional Operation" means that the Hardware is working 
       according to all the Specifications, so that all of the available 
       functionalities of the Hardware can be used;

       "General Conditions" means the general conditions that form part of 
       the Contract;

       "Hardware" means all the equipment, materials, matters and things to 
       be provided by the Contractor to Canada under the Contract 
       (including cables and other ancillary items), and includes Firmware, 
       if any, but does not include software or services.  Unless the 
       context requires otherwise, the term "Hardware" includes any Leased 
       Hardware.  Also, unless the context requires otherwise, each time 
       the term "Hardware" is used, it will be read as also applying to 
       each System delivered under the Contract;

       "Hardware Documentation" means all of the manuals, handbooks, user 
       guides and other human-readable material to be provided by the 
       Contractor to Canada for use with the Hardware, whether it is to be 
       supplied in printed form or on an electronic storage medium, such as 
       a CD-ROM;

       "Leased Hardware" means the Hardware leased under the Contract;

       "Maintenance Service" has the meaning given in Part V;

       "Operational Use Time" means the time, measured in hours and whole 
       minutes, during which the Hardware performs its functions or 
       activities in accordance with the Specifications during User Time, 
       and includes all intervals between the stop and start times of the 
       Hardware during User Time that do not constitute Downtime, such as 
       maintenance scheduled in advance with Canada;

       "Ready for Use" describes the Hardware once the Contractor has 
       delivered it and, if applicable, has installed, integrated and 
       configured it so that it is available for Fully Functional Operation;

       "Specifications", despite the definition in the General Conditions, 
       for the Hardware, means the functional or technical description of 
       the Work set out or referred to in the Contract, including drawings, 
       samples and models, and also includes, except to the extent 
       inconsistent with anything in the Contract, any such description set 
       out or referred to in any brochure, product literature or other 
       documentation provided by the Contractor under the Contract, as well 
       as any technical documentation published or made generally available 
       by the manufacturer of any of the Hardware.  For any System to be 
       provided, if there is any inconsistency between the Specifications 
       for an individual System component and the Specifications for the 
       System as a whole, the Specifications for the System will prevail 
       over the Specifications for any System component;

       "System", in these supplemental general conditions, means the 
       integrated combination of any of the Hardware delivered under the 
       Contract and any other equipment, materials or software described in 
       the Contract that are interconnected with or that otherwise 
       interoperate with the Hardware together as a unit. There may be 
       multiple "Systems" including different items of Hardware delivered 
       under the Contract and a System may include Custom Software, if 
       supplemental general conditions 4002 are part of the Contract and/or 
       Licensed Software (if supplemental general conditions 4003 are part 
       of the Contract;

       "User Time" means 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Eastern Time, Mondays 
       through Fridays, excluding statutory holidays observed by Canada at 
       the site where the Hardware is being used.

2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these supplemental general conditions have the meanings given to 
       them in the General Conditions, unless provided otherwise.  If the 
       General Conditions contain sections entitled "Ownership" or "
       Warranty", those sections do not apply to the Hardware. Instead, the 
       ownership and warranty provisions in these supplemental general 
       conditions apply to the Hardware.

3.     If there is any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these supplemental general conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these supplemental general conditions prevail.

4.     Part I of these supplemental general conditions applies to the 
       relationship between the Parties with respect to hardware 
       transactions generally.

5.     Part II of these supplemental general conditions applies if any 
       Hardware is being purchased or leased under the Contract.

6.     Part III of these supplemental general conditions applies if any 
       Hardware is being purchased under the Contract, including Leased 
       Hardware that is purchased because Canada exercises an option to 
       purchase.

7.     Part IV of these supplemental general conditions applies if any 
       Hardware is being leased under the Contract.

8.     Part V of these supplemental general conditions applies if either or 
       both of Part III or Part IV applies, or if the Contract is for 
       maintenance of Hardware already owned by Canada.

<strong>4001   02     (2008-05-12)  Hardware Must be New</strong>

All Hardware supplied by the Contractor, including parts used to provide 
the Hardware Maintenance Service under Part V, must be new and unused.  The 
Hardware must also: 

(a)    be off-the-shelf, meaning it must be composed of standard equipment 
       requiring no further research or development;

(b)    be a model that is still in production by the manufacturer at the 
       time of delivery; and

(c)    conform to the version of the applicable specification or part 
       number of the manufacturer in effect at the time of delivery.

Unless the Contract provides otherwise, hardware or parts that have been 
refurbished or are certified as "equal to new quality" are not acceptable, 
including for the Hardware Maintenance Service.


<strong>Part II - Conditions Common to Lease and Purchase</strong><strong></strong>

<strong>4001   03     (2008-05-12)  Delivery</strong>

The Contractor must deliver the Hardware to the location(s) designated by 
Canada by the Delivery Date. The Contractor must pay all costs associated 
with replacing any item damaged in transit to the final destination.  The 
Contractor acknowledges that no item will be considered delivered on the 
Delivery Date if it is damaged and not ready for Canada to begin its 
acceptance procedures.  The Contractor must, at a minimum, package the 
Hardware according to industry standards and include a packing slip with 
each shipment.  The Contractor must also arrange for any rigging and 
drayage necessary to deliver the Hardware.  All costs associated with 
packaging, shipping, transportation and delivery are included in the price 
of the Hardware.

<strong>4001   04     (2008-05-12)  Special Site Delivery or Installation 
Preparation Requirements</strong>

1.     If the Contract describes special site preparation requirements, the 
       Contractor must prepare the site for delivery or installation at its 
       own expense according to those requirements, sufficiently in advance 
       to meet the Delivery Date.  All the costs associated with the 
       special site preparation are included in the price of the Hardware.

2.     If the Contract provides that Canada is responsible for special site 
       preparation requirements, then the following applies instead of 
       subsection 1:

       (a)    Canada must prepare the site at its own expense in accordance 
              with the site preparation requirements described in the 
              Contract.

       (b)    If the Contract provides that there are special site 
              preparation requirements, but does not describe them, the 
              Contractor must deliver a complete written description of 
              them to Canada immediately following the date of the Contract 
              or, if the Delivery Date is more than thirty (30) days after 
              the date of the Contract, at any time at least thirty (30) 
              days before the Delivery Date.  If the Contractor delivers 
              the special site preparation requirements to Canada by this 
              time, and Canada does not object to any of the Contractor's 
              requirements within ten (10) days, Canada must prepare the 
              site according to these requirements.  If Canada is required 
              to make any alterations or modifications because the 
              Contractor's special site preparation requirements were 
              incomplete or incorrect, the Contractor must reimburse Canada 
              for any additional expenses it incurs. The Contractor 
              guarantees that, if the site is prepared and maintained by 
              Canada according to the special site preparation requirements, 
              the resulting environment will permit the Hardware to operate 
              according to the Specifications.

       (c)    Canada must complete the special site preparations and notify 
              the Contractor that the site is ready at least five (5) 
              working days before the Delivery Date, after which the 
              Contractor may inspect the site at a time agreed to by Canada.  
              Inspection by the Contractor does not relieve Canada of its 
              obligation to prepare the site according to the special site 
              preparation requirements described in the Contract.

       (d)    If Canada does not prepare the site according to the special 
              site preparation specifications on time, unless the delay is 
              due to an event reasonably beyond Canada's control, the 
              Contractor will be entitled to be reimbursed for any 
              additional costs that it can demonstrate that it reasonably 
              and properly incurred as a direct result of the delay.

3.     If the Contract does not describe any special site preparation 
       requirements, subsections 1 and 2 do not apply, and instead the 
       Contractor guarantees that none are required for the Hardware to 
       operate according to the Specifications.

<strong>4001   05     (2008-05-12)  Installation, Integration and Configuration</strong>

1.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, the Contractor must 
       unpack, assemble, install, integrate, interconnect, and configure 
       all the Hardware at the location(s) specified in the Contract.  
       Where necessary to complete this part of the Work, the Contractor 
       must provide all required moving and installation resources, 
       including but not limited to personnel, packing material, vehicles, 
       cranes, and floor protection panels.  After completing this part of 
       the Work, the Contractor must provide Canada's on-site 
       representative with written notification that the Hardware is Ready 
       for Use.  If either or both of Supplemental General Conditions 4002 
       and/or 4003 apply to the Contract, and the Contract provides that 
       the System consists of the Hardware together with Licensed Software 
       and/or Custom Software, the Work described in this article also 
       applies to the entire System.

2.     The Contractor must supply all materials required to complete the 
       assembly, installation, integration, interconnection, and 
       configuration of the Hardware at the location(s) specified in the 
       Contract so that it is Ready for Use and acceptance, including 
       providing and setting up all the required connections to the power 
       supply and any other necessary utilities, cables, and any other 
       accessories or supplies.

3.     The Contractor must leave all work areas clean and tidy at the end 
       of each workday and once the Work is complete, which includes 
       removing and disposing of all packing materials.

4.     All costs associated with the Work described in this section are 
       included in the price of the Hardware.

<strong>4001   06     (2008-05-12)  Certification of Electrical Equipment</strong>

The Contractor guarantees that all electrical equipment delivered under the 
Contract is either:

(a)    certified by an organization accredited by the Standards Council of 
       Canada in accordance with Part I of the Canadian Electrical Code; or

(b)    has been inspected by an organization acceptable to the Chief 
       Electrical Inspector in the province, territory or city in Canada 
       where the electrical equipment will be delivered, in which case the 
       Contractor must present evidence of this inspection if requested by 
       Canada.

<strong>4001   07     (2008-05-12)  Hardware Documentation</strong>

1.     The Contractor must provide to Canada the same Hardware 
       Documentation that it provides to other purchasers of similar 
       hardware, and must include all supplements and revisions to the 
       Hardware Documentation effective up to the Delivery Date.  The 
       Hardware Documentation must at least include all the documentation 
       available to consumers from the manufacturer of the Hardware about 
       the technical specifications of the Hardware and the Firmware, 
       installation requirements, and operating instructions, as well as 
       details about the software programs with which the Hardware 
       functions, regardless of whether licenses to those software programs 
       are provided under the Contract.

2.     The Contractor guarantees that the Hardware Documentation it 
       provides is sufficiently detailed to allow Canada to use and test 
       all the Hardware's functions.

3.     If the Contract states that the Contractor must provide maintenance 
       documentation, the Contractor guarantees that the Hardware 
       Documentation it provides is sufficiently detailed to permit Canada, 
       or someone authorized by Canada, to maintain and repair the Hardware 
       properly, and to test it for that purpose.

4.     The Contractor must deliver the Hardware Documentation to Canada 
       with the Hardware.  If multiple units are delivered, unless the 
       Contract specifically provides otherwise, the Contractor must 
       provide one complete set of Hardware Documentation with each item of 
       Hardware.

5.     If there are changes to the Hardware during the contract period, the 
       Contractor must update the Hardware Documentation, at no additional 
       cost to Canada. The Contractor must provide these updates within ten 
       (10) days of the updates being made available by the manufacturer. 
       If available from the manufacturer, the updates must include 
       supporting documentation that identifies any problem resolved or 
       enhancement made to the Hardware, any new feature(s) added, and any 
       necessary installation instructions.

6.     Despite anything in the General Conditions concerning copyright, the 
       copyright in the Hardware Documentation will not be owned or 
       transferred to Canada.  However, Canada has the right to use the 
       Hardware Documentation and may, for its own internal purposes, copy 
       it for use by individuals using or supporting the Hardware, as long 
       as Canada includes any copyright and proprietary right notices that 
       are part of the original document.

7.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, the Hardware 
       Documentation must be delivered in both English and French.  If the 
       Contract provides that the Hardware Documentation is only required 
       to be provided in one of Canada's official languages, Canada has the 
       right to translate it or have it translated for its own use.  Canada 
       owns any translation and is not required to provide it to the 
       Contractor. Canada must include any copyright and proprietary right 
       notices that are part of the original document in any translation.  
       The Contractor is not responsible for technical errors that arise as 
       a result of any translation made by Canada.

<strong>4001   08     (2008-05-12)  Minimum Availability Level Requirement</strong>

1.     Each item of Hardware must achieve the minimum availability level 
       specified in the Contract during each month of the contract period. 
       If no minimum availability level is specified, this section does not 
       apply to the Contract.

2.     The availability level achieved each month must be calculated as 
follows:

       Operational Use Time / [Operational Use Time + Downtime] x 100%

3.     The Contractor must monitor the performance of the Hardware and 
       submit written monthly reports regarding the availability level 
       during each calendar month of the contract period.  The report must 
       be submitted to the Contracting Authority and the Technical 
       Authority within thirty (30) days of the end of the month covered by 
       the report.

4.     If the Contract states that no availability level reports are 
       required, the Contractor acknowledges that Canada may monitor the 
       availability level or perform testing at any time during the 
       contract period.

5.     If any Hardware does not meet the minimum availability level in any 
       given month, in addition to any other remedy provided for in the 
       Contract, the Contractor must immediately perform Hardware 
       Maintenance Service to restore the Hardware to Fully Functional 
       Operation at the minimum availability level.

<strong>4001   09     (2008-05-12)  Availability-Level Testing Before Acceptance</strong>

1.     Availability-level testing may be required by Canada before 
       acceptance if the Contract specifies a Minimum Availability Level.  
       If no Minimum Availability Level is specified, this section does not 
       apply to the Contract.

2.     The Contractor must notify the Technical Authority in writing once 
       the work under section 5 is complete and the Hardware is Ready for 
       Use.  Canada must start any availability-level testing within five (
       5) working days after receiving this notice or by the Ready-for-Use 
       date specified in the Contract, whichever is later.

3.     If the Contract provides that section 5 does not apply to the 
       Contract, and Canada intends to conduct availability-level testing 
       on the Hardware, Canada agrees to install the Hardware within ten 
       (10) working days after receiving the Hardware or ten (10) working 
       days after the Delivery Date, whichever is later. Canada agrees to 
       start any availability-level testing within two (2) working days of 
       completing the installation.

4.     Without affecting any of Canada's other rights or remedies under the 
       Contract, Canada must have full access to the Hardware and may make 
       unrestricted operational use of it after the Contractor has given 
       notice that it is Ready for Use or, where installation is Canada's 
       responsibility, after it is delivered to and installed by Canada.  
       However, Canada must provide the Contractor, at all times before the 
       Hardware is accepted, priority access to the Hardware to maintain it 
       and to perform the Contract.

5.     To pass the availability-level test, the Hardware must achieve the 
       Minimum Availability Level for thirty (30) consecutive days within 
       ninety (90) days of the testing beginning.  During 
       availability-level testing, the Contractor must provide weekly 
       written reports to Canada showing the Hardware performance in 
       relation to the Minimum Availability Level.

6.     If the Hardware does not pass the availability-level tests in the 
       time described in subsection 5, Canada may, without affecting any 
       other rights or remedies described in the Contract, choose to do one 
       or more of the following:

       (a)    require the Contractor to replace some or all of the Hardware 
              with new Hardware, which would again be subject to 
              availability-level testing and acceptance;

       (b)    extend the availability-level testing period; and

       (c)    terminate the Contract for default, at no cost to Canada.

7.     If Canada does not carry out any availability-level testing within 
       the time described in this section, when the availability level of 
       the Hardware is calculated, the time during which Canada otherwise 
       would have conducted that testing will be considered uninterrupted 
       Operational Use Time. However, this will not apply if Canada is 
       unable to start or continue the availability-level testing because 
       of an event reasonably beyond Canada's control.  In that case, 
       Canada may temporarily suspend the availability-level testing and 
       the time limits for testing referred to in this section or elsewhere 
       in the Contract will be extended by the number of days that testing 
       is suspended, up to a maximum extension of sixty ( 60) days.

8.     If Canada determines that the Hardware successfully passes the 
       availability-level testing, which in addition to the above may 
       include tests of any function of the Hardware to determine whether 
       it meets the Specifications, the first day of the 30-day period in 
       which the Hardware achieves the Minimum Availability Level will be 
       considered the acceptance date.

<strong>4001   10     (2008-05-12)  Acceptance</strong>

1.     The Hardware, including all the Work related to it, is subject to 
       acceptance by Canada.  As part of its acceptance process, Canada may 
       test any function of the Hardware to determine whether it meets the 
       Specifications.  If any of the Work does not meet the requirements 
       of the Contract, Canada may reject it or require that it be 
       corrected at the Contractor's expense before accepting it. No 
       payments for the Hardware are due under the Contract unless the 
       Hardware is accepted.

2.     Acceptance by Canada does not relieve the Contractor of its 
       responsibility for defects in the Hardware or other failures to meet 
       the requirements of the Contract or of its warranty or maintenance 
       obligations under the Contract.

3.     Except where section 9 applies, the procedure for acceptance will be 
as follows:

       (a)    the Contractor must notify the Contracting Authority in 
              writing once the Hardware is Ready for Use by referring to 
              this provision of the Contract and requesting acceptance of 
              the Work;

       (b)    Canada will have thirty (30) days to perform its acceptance 
              procedures (the "Acceptance Period"); and

       (c)    if Canada provides notice of any deficiency during the 
              Acceptance Period, the Contractor must address the deficiency 
              at no cost to Canada as soon as possible and notify Canada in 
              writing once the Work is complete, at which time Canada will 
              be entitled to re-inspect the Work and the Acceptance Period 
              will start again.

4.     Despite Supplemental General Conditions 4002 and 4003, if either or 
       both apply to the Contract, if the Contract states that the System 
       consists of the Hardware together with Licensed Software and/or 
       Custom Software, the period for conducting any acceptance tests for 
       the System, including any Licensed Software and any Custom Software 
       components of the System, will be the acceptance period for the 
       Hardware specified in these supplemental general conditions.

<strong>4001   11     (2008-05-12)  Firmware</strong>

1.     The Contractor must deliver the Hardware equipped with all the 
       Firmware required to use all the Hardware's functions.

2.     Canada will not own any of the Firmware, but the Contractor grants 
       to Canada a perpetual, non-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free 
       license to use the Firmware with the Hardware.  Canada may transfer 
       this license if Canada transfers ownership of the Hardware to a 
       third party.  Any reference in the Contract to the Firmware being a 
       deliverable is a reference to the license to use that Firmware, not 
       ownership of the Firmware.

3.     The Contractor guarantees that it has the right to license the 
       Firmware and full power and authority to grant to Canada the rights 
       to use the Firmware described in this section.  The Contractor also 
       guarantees that all necessary consents to that grant have been 
       obtained.

<strong>4001   12     (2008-05-12)  Total System Responsibility</strong>

1.     If the Contract provides that the Hardware is part of one or more 
       Systems, the Contractor must supply the System(s) as a whole and 
       ensure that each System is available for Fully Functional Operation 
       at all times.

2.     If the Contract provides that the Contractor must incorporate 
       Government Property into the System, the obligations under 
       subsection 1 include the Government Property and the Contractor must 
       make any adjustments to the Government Property required to ensure 
       compatibility with the rest of the System.  If requested by Canada 
       during the Hardware Warranty Period (defined below), the Contractor 
       must as soon as possible correct any failure of the System to 
       conform to the Specifications that is caused by the improper 
       interconnection or integration of any Government Property into the 
       System.  This provision survives acceptance of the Work and does not 
       limit any of the Contractor's warranty or maintenance obligations 
       under the Contract.

3.     Despite subsections 1 and 2, the Contractor is not responsible for a 
       failure of the System to meet the Specifications, if that failure is 
       directly caused by a defect in any Government Property, or by any 
       failure of Government Property to meet its specifications.  This 
       subsection does not apply to any Government Property that was 
       originally supplied to Canada by the Contractor, but is then made 
       available by Canada to the Contractor for use under the Contract.


<strong>Part III - Additional Conditions: Purchase</strong>

<strong>4001   13     (2008-05-12)  Ownership of the Purchased Hardware and Risk of 
Loss or Damage</strong>

1.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, including subsection 2, 
       Canada becomes the owner of the Hardware once the Hardware has been 
       delivered to and accepted by Canada according to the conditions of 
       the Contract.

2.     If Canada pays the Contractor for any materials, parts, 
       work-in-process, or finished work, either by way of progress 
       payments or otherwise, then Canada will own them once the payment is 
       made, unless ownership has already passed to Canada under another 
       provision of the Contract.  The fact that ownership has transferred 
       to Canada does not mean that Canada has accepted the materials, 
       parts, work-in-process or finished work, and does not relieve the 
       Contractor of its obligation to perform the Work in accordance with 
       the Contract.  Also, the risk of loss or damage to the materials, 
       parts, work-in-process or finished work remains with the Contractor 
       until they are delivered to Canada in accordance with the Contract, 
       even if ownership has transferred to Canada.

3.     After delivery, the Contractor remains responsible for loss or 
       damage to any part of the Work caused by the Contractor or any 
       subcontractor or any person for whom either is responsible.

4.     The Contractor guarantees that it has the right to transfer 
       ownership of the Hardware to Canada and that there are no liens, 
       attachments, charges, encumbrances, or claims affecting the Hardware.  
       Once ownership passes to Canada, the Contractor must, if Canada 
       requests, establish to the Contracting Authority's satisfaction that 
       the title is free and clear of all liens, attachments, charges, 
       encumbrances, or claims.  If requested by the Contracting Authority, 
       the Contractor must execute any transfer documentation and take any 
       other steps that are necessary to perfect Canada's title.

<strong>4001   14     (2008-05-12)  Warranty for Purchased Hardware</strong>

1.     Even if Canada has accepted the Work, the Contractor guarantees that, 
       for twelve (12) months after the Hardware is accepted (the "Hardware 
       Warranty Period"), it will be free from all defects in materials or 
       workmanship, be free from all design defects, and conform in all 
       ways with the requirements of the Contract, including the 
       Specifications and any Minimum Availability Level requirements.  
       Because items of Hardware may be accepted on different days, the 
       Hardware Warranty Period for different items of Hardware delivered 
       under the Contract may begin and end on different days.  If the 
       Contract provides that the System consists of the Hardware together 
       with Licensed Software and/or Custom Software, the Hardware Warranty 
       Period will also apply to the Licensed Software and/or Custom 
       Software components of the System and this longer period will apply 
       to all the warranty, maintenance and support obligations described 
       in Supplemental General Conditions 4002 and 4003.

2.     This warranty does not apply to a specific item of Hardware if the 
       only reason that item fails to conform to the requirements of the 
       Contract is because:

       (a)    Canada is negligent or does not use the Hardware in 
              accordance with the Specifications;

       (b)    electric power or air conditioning or humidity control at the 
              site does not perform according to any special site 
              preparation requirements described in the Contract;

       (c)    a person other than the Contractor, a subcontractor, or a 
              person approved by either of them modifies the Hardware or 
              attaches equipment to the Hardware that was not designed or 
              approved for use with the Hardware by the Contractor, a 
              subcontractor, or the manufacturer of the Hardware; or

       (d)    Canada uses consumable supplies or materials in or on the 
              Hardware that are supplied by a person other than the 
              Contractor or a subcontractor or a person for whom either of 
              them is responsible, if those consumables or materials do not 
              conform to the Specifications or to the Hardware 
              manufacturer's instructions to consumers.

3.     The Contractor must provide Hardware Maintenance Service for the 
       Hardware throughout the Hardware Warranty Period.  All charges and 
       costs associated with providing the Hardware Maintenance Service 
       during the Hardware Warranty Period are included in the price of the 
       Hardware.  The Contractor must continue to provide Hardware 
       Maintenance Service for any part of the Hardware that is repaired, 
       replaced or otherwise made good as part of the Hardware Maintenance 
       Service for the remainder of the Hardware Warranty Period that 
       applied to the original item of Hardware.

4.     The Contractor guarantees that the parts required to perform the 
       Hardware Maintenance Service will be available throughout the 
       Hardware Warranty Period.


<strong>Part IV - Additional Conditions: Lease</strong><strong></strong>

<strong>4001   15     (2008-05-12)  Ownership of Leased Hardware</strong>

1.     The Contractor will remain the owner of all the Leased Hardware, 
       unless Canada either exercises any option to purchase the Hardware 
       included in the Contract, or purchases the Hardware under a separate 
       agreement.

2.     If the Contract contains an option to purchase the Hardware or any 
       part of it, Canada will become the owner of that Hardware on the 
       date it exercises that option, or the date Canada specifies when it 
       exercises the option, if any.  At the time of that purchase, the 
       provisions of Part III automatically apply to the purchased Hardware.  
       Once Canada becomes the owner, Canada bears the risk of loss or 
       damage to the purchased Hardware, but the Contractor must honour the 
       warranty in section 14.  Once Canada becomes the owner, no more 
       lease payments are due under the Contract for the purchased Hardware.

<strong>4001   16     (2008-05-12)  Lease Period</strong>

1.     The period of the lease starts on the day the Hardware is accepted 
       and ends when it expires in accordance with the Contract (Lease 
       Period), unless the lease is terminated earlier in accordance with 
       the Contract. If it is not specified elsewhere in the Contract, the 
       Lease Period is twelve (12) months.

2.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract, if the Contract allows 
       for additional items to be leased during the contract period, 
       regardless of when those items become part of the Leased Hardware, 
       the Lease Period for all the Leased Hardware will end on the day 
       that the Lease Period for the first item of Hardware leased under 
       the Contract expires.

3.     If the first day of the Lease Period is not on the first day of a 
       calendar month, then the charge for the first and last months of the 
       lease will be the portion of the specified monthly charge determined 
       by multiplying the number of days in the month during which the 
       lease is in effect by 1/30 of the monthly lease charge in effect 
       under the Contract at the time.

<strong>4001   17     (2008-05-12)  Warranty for Leased Hardware</strong>

1.     Even if Canada has accepted the Leased Hardware, the Contractor 
       warrants that, throughout the Lease Period (which is also the "
       Hardware Warranty Period"), it will be free from all defects in 
       materials or workmanship, be free from all design defects, and 
       conform in all ways with the requirements of the Contract, including 
       the Specifications and any Minimum Availability Level requirements.  
       If the Contract provides that the System consists of the Hardware 
       together with Licensed Software and/or Custom Software, the Hardware 
       Warranty Period will also apply to the Licensed Software and/or 
       Custom Software components of the System and this longer period will 
       apply to all the warranty, maintenance and support obligations 
       described in Supplemental General Conditions 4002 and 4003.

2.     This warranty does not apply to a specific item of Leased Hardware 
       if the only reason that item fails to conform to the requirements of 
       the Contract is because:

       (a)    Canada is negligent or does not use the Hardware in 
              accordance with the Specifications;

       (b)    electric power or air conditioning or humidity control at the 
              site does not perform according to any special site 
              preparation requirements described in the Contract;

       (c)    a person other than the Contractor, a subcontractor, or a 
              person approved by either of them modifies the Hardware or 
              attaches equipment to the Hardware that was not designed or 
              approved for use with the Hardware by the Contractor, a 
              subcontractor, or the manufacturer of the Hardware; or

       (d)    Canada uses consumable supplies or materials in or on the 
              Hardware that are supplied by a person other than the 
              Contractor or a subcontractor or a person for whom either of 
              them is responsible, if those consumables or materials do not 
              conform to the Specifications or to the Hardware 
              manufacturer's instructions to consumers.

3.     The Contractor must provide Hardware Maintenance Service for the 
       Leased Hardware throughout the Hardware Warranty Period.  All 
       charges and costs associated with providing the Hardware Maintenance 
       Service during the Hardware Warranty Period are included in the 
       lease rates.  The Contractor must continue to provide Hardware 
       Maintenance Service for any part of the Leased Hardware that is 
       repaired, replaced or otherwise made good as part of the Hardware 
       Maintenance Service for the remainder of the Hardware Warranty 
       Period that applied to the original item of Leased Hardware.

4.     The Contractor guarantees that the parts required to perform the 
       Hardware Maintenance Service will be available throughout the 
       Hardware Warranty Period.

<strong>4001   18     (2008-05-12)  Termination of Lease for Convenience</strong>

1.     Instead of the section of the General Conditions entitled "
       Termination for Convenience", this section applies to the Leased 
       Hardware.

2.     Despite anything contained in the Contract, Canada may terminate the 
       lease for all or any part of the Leased Hardware at any time during 
       the Lease Period by giving notice to the Contractor sixty (60) days 
       in advance.

3.     If the Contracting Authority issues a termination notice under 
       subsection 2, the only amounts that the Contractor will be entitled 
       to be paid in connection with the termination are:

       (a)    the monthly lease charges for the Leased Hardware, or the 
              part of the Leased Hardware for which the lease is terminated, 
              up to the date of termination, prorated as necessary if the 
              termination date does not coincide with the end of the month; 
              and

       (b)    the lease termination charge, if one is specifically set out 
              in the Contract.

4.     Despite subsection 3, the total amount that the Contractor will be 
       entitled to be paid in connection with the termination under 
       subsection 3, together with any amounts already paid to the 
       Contractor for the lease of the Hardware, must not exceed the total 
       Contract Price for the lease of the Hardware, or, in the case of a 
       partial termination, the portion of the Contract Price that applies 
       to the portion of the lease that is terminated.

<strong>4001   19     (2008-05-12)  Risk of Loss or Damage to Leased Hardware</strong>

1.     The Contractor agrees to bear the risk of loss of or damage to the 
       Hardware while it is being transported or installed and during the 
       entire time the Hardware is in Canada's possession, except losses or 
       damages caused by the negligence of Canada or someone acting on 
       Canada's behalf.

2.     If the Hardware is lost or damaged during the Lease Period, unless 
       the loss or damage is caused by Canada or by someone acting on 
       Canada's behalf, Canada is not required to make lease payments while 
       the Contractor repairs or replaces the Hardware and, at Canada's 
       option, the Lease Period will be extended by the amount of time the 
       Contractor takes to repair or replace the Hardware.  This subsection 
       does not prevent Canada from terminating the Contract for default, 
       if the Hardware is unavailable for Fully Functional Operation for 
       more than thirty (30) days.

<strong>4001   20     (2008-05-12)  Modifications to Leased Hardware</strong>

Canada agrees not to modify the Leased Hardware unless it obtains the 
Contractor's written approval, which the Contractor must not unreasonably 
withhold.

<strong>4001   21     (2008-05-12)  Relocation of Leased Hardware</strong>

Canada may, at its option and cost, relocate the Leased Hardware within the 
facility where the Leased Hardware is in use or to another facility, using 
the moving resources of its choice.  Any relocation in no way affects the 
Contractor's warranty or its obligation to provide Hardware Maintenance 
Service for the Leased Hardware, unless the Contractor can demonstrate that 
the relocation is directly responsible for the failure or malfunction of 
the Leased Hardware.  In that case, Canada will be responsible for 
repairing any damage caused by the relocation, or for paying the Contractor 
to repair that damage, and the remainder of the Contractor's warranty and 
maintenance obligations will remain in effect.

<strong>4001   22     (2008-05-12)  De-installation and Removal of Leased Hardware</strong>

1.     The Contractor must de-install and remove the Hardware promptly 
       after the expiration or termination of the lease.  If the Lease 
       Period is different for different items of Hardware, this obligation 
       applies to each item of Hardware when the lease ends.  The 
       Contractor must provide all necessary removal resources, including 
       cranes, and must arrange for any necessary transportation, rigging 
       and drayage in connection with the removal of the Hardware from 
       Canada's premises.  All costs associated with the de-installation, 
       removal and transportation to the Contractor's premises are included 
       in the lease rates. 

2.     If the Contractor does not de-install and remove the Hardware within 
       thirty (30) days of the end or termination of the lease, at Canada's 
       option, ownership of the Leased Hardware will automatically transfer 
       to Canada or Canada may arrange for the de-installation and removal 
       of the Leased Hardware, at the Contractor's cost.  Canada may deduct 
       this amount from any amount owing by Canada to the Contractor from 
       time to time, under the Contract or otherwise.

<strong>4001   23     (2008-05-12)  Quiet Enjoyment</strong>

The Contractor guarantees that it has full power and authority to lease the 
Hardware to Canada.  The Contractor also guarantees that, during the Lease 
Period, if Canada is performing its obligations under the Contract, Canada 
will have unlimited use of the Hardware without disturbance by the 
Contractor, or any person acting on behalf of the Contractor or who has 
rights granted by the Contractor, except when the Contractor is performing 
Hardware Maintenance Service under the Contract.

<strong>4001   24     (2008-05-12)  Right to Withhold Lease Payments</strong>

If the Contractor is not carrying out all of its obligations under the 
Contract, Canada may, without affecting any other right that Canada may 
have, including the right to terminate for default, withhold the lease 
payments from the Contractor until the default is cured.  The Contracting 
Authority may exercise this right by sending a notice to the Contractor 
that describes the default.


<strong>Part V - Additional Conditions: Maintenance</strong>

<strong>4001   25     (2008-12-12)  Hardware Maintenance Service</strong>

1.     In this Part, the "Hardware Maintenance Period" means:

       (a)    for Hardware purchased under the Contract, the Hardware 
              Warranty Period described in section 14, plus any time by 
              which the Hardware Maintenance Period is extended if the 
              Contract includes an option for extending the Hardware 
              Maintenance Service;

       (b)    for the Leased Hardware, the entire Lease Period;

       (c)    for Leased Hardware that is later purchased under the 
              Contract, both the Lease Period and, beginning on the date of 
              purchase, the period described in (a); and

       (d)    for Hardware that is neither purchased nor leased under the 
              Contract, twelve (12) months, plus any time by which the 
              Hardware Maintenance Period is extended if the Contract 
              includes an option for extending the Hardware Maintenance 
              Service.

2.     The Contractor agrees to maintain the Hardware according to this 
       Part to ensure that it remains capable of Fully Functional Operation 
       throughout the Hardware Maintenance Period (the "Hardware 
       Maintenance Service").  As part of the Hardware Maintenance Service, 
       the Contractor agrees to diagnose and resolve all problems that 
       occur in the Hardware by repairing, replacing or otherwise making 
       good the part or parts of the Hardware that are defective or do not 
       meet the Specifications as soon as possible.  The Contractor agrees 
       that a problem is not resolved until the Hardware is restored to 
       Fully Functional Operation.

3.     The cost of providing all labour, parts and other materials or 
       travel required to restore the Hardware to Fully Functional 
       Operation or perform any other part of the Hardware Maintenance 
       Service described in this section is included in the Hardware 
       Maintenance Service. No additional charges for time, material or 
       other costs related to maintaining the Hardware can be made during 
       the Hardware Maintenance Period, other than the charges contemplated 
       by subsections 26(3)(e) and (f).

4.     The Contractor must accept and respond to Hardware Maintenance 
       Service calls during the "Principal Period of Maintenance" (PPM). If 
       the PPM is not defined elsewhere in the Contract, the PPM is twelve 
       (12) hours each day, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Eastern Time, Monday to 
       Friday, not including statutory holidays observed by Canada.

5.     As part of the Hardware Maintenance Service, the Contractor must 
       provide Canada with technical support through a single toll-free 
       hotline with service available in English and French, based on the 
       caller's language preference, in accordance with the following:

       (a)    The Contractor's hotline must be staffed by qualified 
              personnel who are able to respond to user questions and, to 
              the extent possible, resolve user problems and provide advice 
              about problems relating to all the Hardware and the Hardware 
              Documentation, as well as installation, configuration, 
              integration and interconnection issues relating to the 
              Hardware.  For all user problems that cannot be resolved over 
              the telephone, the Contractor must issue a trouble ticket for 
              Hardware Maintenance Service, either for Return-to-Depot 
              Maintenance Service or On-Site Maintenance Service described 
              in section 26, as applicable.

       (b)    The Contractor's hotline must be available, at a minimum, 
              throughout the PPM.

       (c)    The Contractor must provide its hotline telephone number to 
              the Contracting Authority immediately after the Contract is 
              awarded. 

       (d)    The Contractor must pick up all hotline calls within 5 rings 
              95 percent of the time.  The Contractor must answer all calls, 
              with a live service agent, within 2 minutes 95 percent of the 
              time.

6.     As part of the Hardware Maintenance Service, the Contractor must 
       also provide Canada with technical support through a Web site 
       support service, which must include, as a minimum, frequently asked 
       questions and, if applicable, on-line software diagnostic routines, 
       support tools, and services. The Contractor's Web site must provide 
       support in English and in French. The Contractor's Web site must be 
       available to Canada's users twenty-four (24) hours a day, 365 days a 
       year, and must be available 99 percent of the time.  The Contractor 
       must provide its Web site address to the Contracting Authority 
       immediately after the Contract is awarded.

7.     Each time the Contractor provides Hardware Maintenance Service, 
       except Hardware Maintenance Service under sections 5 or 6, the 
       Contractor's service technician must prepare a Hardware Maintenance 
       Service report. The Contractor must provide one copy of this report 
       to the representative of Canada at the site when the work is 
       completed. The Contractor must keep copies of the reports for six (6) 
       years from the date the Contract expires or is terminated and 
       provide a copy of any Hardware Maintenance Service reports to the 
       Contracting Authority on request. Each Hardware Maintenance Service 
       report must include the following:

       (a)    the date and time the Contractor received the maintenance 
              call;

       (b)    the service location that received or responded to the 
              maintenance call;

       (c)    the serial number for the item of Hardware;

       (d)    the name of person who performed the maintenance;

       (e)    if the maintenance is performed on site, the time the service 
              technician arrived at the site, and all the time spent 
              working at the site, including the number of hours and date 
              for each day worked at the site;

       (f)    a description of symptom;

       (g)    the diagnosis of problem;

       (h)    a list of all parts replaced or installed;

       (i)    the identification number of each major assembly removed or 
              exchanged, if any; and

       (j)    if the maintenance was performed on site, both the name of 
              the Contractor's service technician and the service location 
              from which the representative works, as well as the name and 
              signature of Canada's representative at the site who accepts 
              that the Hardware appears to have been restored to Fully 
              Functional Operation.

8.     Canada acknowledges that, in performing the Hardware Maintenance 
       Service, the Contractor and its employees, agents, and 
       subcontractors may develop and share with Canada ideas, know-how, 
       teaching techniques, and other intellectual property.  Except as 
       otherwise provided in the Contract, ownership of that intellectual 
       property will belong to the Contractor.  As long as the Contractor 
       at all times observes the confidentiality provisions of the Contract, 
       the Contractor will be entitled to use that intellectual property 
       for whatever purposes it sees fit, including in the services it 
       provides to its other customers, on the condition that Canada also 
       has the right, without cost, to use that intellectual property for 
       its own purposes.

<strong>4001   26     (2008-05-12)  Classes of Maintenance Service</strong>

1.     This section describes two classes of Hardware Maintenance Service: 
       "Return-to-Depot Maintenance Service" and "On-Site Maintenance 
       Service".  If the Contract specifies that more than one class of 
       service applies, Canada may specify the class of service required 
       for each item of Hardware, either in the Articles of Agreement or, 
       if the Contract contemplates multiple orders for the purchase or 
       lease of Hardware, in the individual order at the time the Hardware 
       is purchased or leased. If the Contract does not specify the 
       required class of service, the Contractor must provide 
       Return-to-Depot Maintenance Service only.

2.     For Return-to-Depot Maintenance Service, during the PPM throughout 
       the Hardware Maintenance Period, the Contractor must pick up and 
       return the Hardware to and from the location in Canada where the 
       Hardware was in use at the time the problem occurred.  The 
       Contractor must pick up the Hardware requiring maintenance within 
       forty-eight (48) hours of Canada requesting maintenance.  Within six 
       (6) working days of Canada requesting maintenance, the Contractor 
       must restore the Hardware to Fully Functional Operation or must 
       deliver a replacement that meets the requirements of the Contract.

3.     For On-Site Maintenance Service, during the PPM throughout the 
       Hardware Maintenance Period, the Contractor must perform on-site 
       maintenance on any Hardware for which a problem is reported at the 
       location in Canada where the Hardware was in use at the time the 
       problem occurred, in accordance with the following:

       (a)    The Contractor must arrive on site within the following 
              timeframes:

              (i)    If the equipment is located within a radius of 100 km 
                     from any population center of at least 100,000 people, 
                     a service technician must respond by telephone within 
                     1 hour of the telephone call for service and a service 
                     technician must arrive at the site within twenty-four 
                     (24) hours of the initial call requesting service;

              (ii)   If the equipment is located within a radius of 100 km 
                     from any population center of 30,000 to 99,999 people, 
                     a service technician must respond by telephone within 
                     1 hour of the telephone call for service and a service 
                     technician must arrive at the site within forty-eight 
                     (48) hours of the initial call requesting service; and

              (iii)  For all other locations within Canada, a service 
                     technician must respond by telephone within 1 hour of 
                     the telephone call for service and a service 
                     technician must arrive at the site within seventy-two 
                     (72) hours of the initial call requesting service.

       (b)    After starting the maintenance, the Contractor must work 
              continuously throughout the PPM until it returns the Hardware 
              to Fully Functional Operation or until Canada suspends the 
              work.

       (c)    The period from the time that Canada notifies the Contractor 
              to suspend the Work until Canada notifies the Contractor to 
              resume work will not be considered Downtime in the 
              availability level calculation, if applicable.  If the 
              Hardware requires maintenance at a time when the required 
              response time would result in the Contractor's service 
              technician arriving at the site outside of the PPM, and 
              Canada does not request service outside of the PPM at the 
              applicable rate, if available under the Contract, then the 
              period until the next PPM will not be considered Downtime in 
              any availability level calculation.

       (d)    Within 4 working days of Canada requesting maintenance, the 
              Contractor must restore the Hardware to Fully Functional 
              Operation or must deliver a replacement that meets the 
              requirements of the Contract.

       (e)    If the Contract includes a separate hourly rate for On-Site 
              Maintenance Service performed outside the PPM, and the user 
              placing the call for Hardware Maintenance Service 
              specifically requests that the service be performed outside 
              the PPM at an additional charge, the Contractor must arrive 
              at the site within the timeframes specified in subsection 3(a) 
              as though the service were being performed within the PPM. In 
              this case, the Contractor is entitled to include a charge on 
              the next invoice, at the On-Site Maintenance Service hourly 
              rate for work outside the PPM specified in the Contract, for 
              the hours worked outside the PPM.  The Contractor is entitled 
              to charge for the actual time worked outside of the PPM or 
              two (2) hours, whichever is more, but is not entitled to 
              charge for travel time.  Where the Contractor performs the 
              Hardware Maintenance Service outside the PPM, the time 
              outside the PPM until the Hardware is restored to Fully 
              Functional Operation will be considered Downtime.

       (f)    The Contractor may also submit a charge on its next invoice, 
              at the On-Site Maintenance Service hourly rate for work 
              outside the PPM specified in the Contract, for hours worked 
              outside the PPM where the Contractor arrives at the site 
              during the PPM and begins the Work, but is unable to complete 
              the Work during the PPM, if Canada's on-site representative 
              specifically requests that the service technician remain 
              after the PPM ends to complete the Work at an additional 
              charge.  To submit this charge, the Contractor must obtain 
              the signature of Canada's on-site representative agreeing to 
              the additional charge. Because the Contractor's service 
              technician is already at the site, the Contractor must only 
              charge for the actual time worked outside the PPM, and no 
              minimum charge applies. Where the Contractor performs the 
              Hardware Maintenance Service outside the PPM, the time 
              outside the PPM until the Hardware is restored to Fully 
              Functional Operation will be considered Downtime.

       (g)    If no On-Site Maintenance Service hourly rate for work 
              outside the PPM is specified in the Contract, the Contractor 
              is not required to perform the Hardware Maintenance Service 
              outside the PPM and must not submit a charge if it chooses to 
              complete the Work outside the PPM.



</pre>