<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Use the following clause in conjunction with DSS-MAS 9624,"General Conditions - 
Research and Development," where Canada is to own the foreground information.
</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     General Conditions DSS-MAS 9624, Research and Development, are 
       amended by deleting the sections entitled "Contractor to Own 
       Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information"; "License to 
       Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information"; "License to 
       Intellectual Property Rights in Background Information"; "Right to 
       License"; "Transfer of Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground 
       Information"; "Sale, Assignment, Transfer or Licensing of 
       Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information"; "Access to 
       Information; Exception to Contractor Rights" and subsection 22(2) of 
       "Disclosure of Foreground Information" in their entirety. This 
       section applies in lieu of those sections.

[<strong>Canada to Own Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information</strong>]

2.     Without affecting any Intellectual Property Rights or interests 
       therein that have come into being prior to the Contract, all 
       Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground Information shall 
       immediately, as soon as they come into existence, vest in and remain 
       the property of Canada. The Contractor shall have no right in or to 
       any such Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground Information 
       except any right that may be granted in writing by Canada.

3.     The Contractor shall incorporate the copyright symbol and either of 
       the following copyright notices, as appropriate, into all Foreground 
       Information that is subject to copyright, regardless of the form in 
       or medium upon which it is recorded:

       © HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN IN RIGHT OF CANADA (year)

       or

       © SA MAJESTÉ LA REINE DU CHEF DU CANADA (year)

4.     (a)    For greater certainty, the Contractor agrees that where the 
              Work under the Contract involves the preparation of a 
              database or other compilation using information or data 
              supplied by Canada or personal information referred to in 
              paragraph (b), then the Contractor shall not use or disclose 
              any such information or data or personal information for any 
              purpose other than completing the Work under the Contract.  
              The Contractor shall not dispose of such information or data 
              or personal information except by returning it to Canada.  
              The Contractor shall comply with the General Conditions of 
              the Contract in regard to maintaining the confidentiality of 
              such information, data, or personal information.  Unless the 
              Contract otherwise expressly provides, the Contractor shall 
              deliver to Canada all such information, data, or personal 
              information, together with every copy, draft, working paper 
              and note thereof that contains such information, data, or 
              personal information upon completion or termination of the 
              Contract or at such earlier time as the Minister may require.

              (b)    For greater certainty and without limiting paragraph 4.(
                     a), if the Work under the Contract involves the 
                     collection of personal information as that term is 
                     defined in the <em>Privacy Act</em> (R.S., c. P-21), then all 
                     Intellectual Property Rights in and title to that 
                     personal information shall, immediately upon the 
                     collection of it by the Contractor, vest in Canada, 
                     and the Contractor shall have no right or interest in 
                     it. 
5.     The Contractor shall execute such conveyances or other documents 
       relating to the Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground 
       Information as the minister for whose department or agency the Work 
       is being or was carried out may require, and the Contractor shall, 
       at Canada's expense, afford that minister all reasonable assistance 
       in the preparation of applications and in the prosecution of any 
       applications for registration of any Intellectual Property Right in 
       any jurisdiction, including without limitation the assistance of the 
       inventor in the case of Inventions."

[<strong>License to Intellectual Property Rights in Background Information</strong>]

6.     Without restricting the scope of any license or other right in the 
       Background Information that Canada may otherwise hold, the 
       Contractor hereby grants to Canada a non-exclusive, perpetual, 
       irrevocable, worldwide, fully-paid and royalty-free license to 
       exercise such of the Intellectual Property Rights in any Background 
       Information incorporated into the Work or necessary for the 
       performance of the Work as may be required in order for Canada to 
       exercise its Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground 
       Information. The Contractor agrees, subject to subsection 9, to make 
       any such Background Information (including, in the case of Software, 
       source code) promptly available to Canada for any such purpose.

7.     The Contractor acknowledges that Canada may wish to award contracts 
       for a purpose contemplated in subsection 6 and that such contract 
       awards may follow a competitive process. The Contractor agrees that 
       Canada's license in relation to the Intellectual Property Rights in 
       the Background Information includes the right to disclose the 
       Background Information to bidders for such contracts and to 
       sublicense or otherwise authorize the use of that information by any 
       contractor engaged by Canada solely for the purpose of carrying out 
       such a contract. Canada shall require bidders and the contractor not 
       to use or disclose any Background Information except as may be 
       necessary to bid for or to carry out that contract.

8.     Where the Intellectual Property Rights in any Background Information 
       are owned by a Subcontractor at any tier, the Contractor shall 
       either obtain a license from that Subcontractor that permits 
       compliance with subsections 6 and 7 or arrange for the Subcontractor 
       to convey directly to Canada the same rights by execution of the 
       form provided for that purpose by the Minister, in which case the 
       Contractor shall deliver that form to the Minister, duly completed 
       and executed by the Subcontractor, no later than the time of 
       disclosure to Canada of that Background Information.

9.     Notwithstanding subsection 6, the license set out therein shall not 
       apply to any Software that is subject to detailed license conditions 
       that are set out elsewhere in the Contract. Furthermore, in the case 
       of commercial off-the-shelf software, the Contractor's obligation to 
       make the source code promptly available to Canada for a purpose set 
       out in subsection 6 shall apply only to source code that is within 
       the control of or can be obtained by the Contractor or any 
       Subcontractor, and in that event the Contractor shall, if requested 
       by Canada, make the source code available to Canada within 
       reasonable delivery times and on reasonable other commercial terms."

[<strong>Right to License</strong>]

10.    The Contractor represents and warrants that the Contractor has, or 
       the Contractor shall obtain, without delay, the right to grant to 
       Canada the license to exercise the Intellectual Property Rights in 
       the Background Information as required by the Contract."

[<strong>Access to Information; Exception to Contractor Rights</strong>]

11.    Subject to the <em>Access to Information Act</em>, (R.S., c. A-1) and to any 
       right of Canada under the Contract to release or disclose, Canada 
       shall not release or disclose outside the Government of Canada any 
       Background Information delivered to Canada under the Contract that 
       is confidential information or a trade secret of the Contractor or a 
       Subcontractor. 
 
12.    Nothing in these terms and conditions shall be construed as limiting 
       Canada's right to exercise the Intellectual Property Rights in any 
       Background Information, or to disclose any Background Information, 
       to the extent that such information: 

       (a)    is or becomes in the public domain, or to the extent that the 
              Contractor does not benefit from or ceases to benefit from 
              any intellectual property rights protection for such 
              information under legislation or at law (other than under the 
              terms of the Contract), for any reason including as a result 
              of Canada's use or disclosure of deliverables under the 
              Contract for any purpose whatever that is not expressly 
              excluded under the Contract;

       (b)    is or becomes known to Canada from a source other than the 
              Contractor, except from any source that is known to Canada to 
              be under an obligation to the Contractor not to disclose the 
              information; 

       (c)    is independently developed by or for Canada; or

       (d)    is disclosed under compulsion of a legislative requirement or 
              any order of a court or other tribunal having jurisdiction."

</pre>
</div>