<pre>1.     <strong>Financial Capability Requirement</strong>:  The Offeror must have the 
       financial capability to undertake this requirement.  To determine 
       the Offeror's financial capability, the Standing Offer Authority may, 
       by written notice to the Offeror, require the submission of some or 
       all of the financial information detailed below during the 
       evaluation of offers.  The Offeror must provide the following 
       information to the Standing Offer Authority within fifteen (15) 
       working days of the request or as specified by the Standing Offer 
       Authority in the notice:

       (a)    Audited financial statements, if available, or the unaudited 
              financial statements (prepared by the Offeror's outside 
              accounting firm, if available, or prepared in-house if no 
              external statements have been prepared) for the Offeror's 
              last three fiscal years, or for the years that the Offeror 
              has been in business if this is less than three years 
              (including, as a minimum, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of 
              Retained Earnings, the Income Statement and any notes to the 
              statements).

       (b)    If the date of the financial statements is more than three 
              months before the date of the request for information by the 
              Standing Offer Authority in (a) above, the Offeror must also 
              provide interim financial statements (consisting of a Balance 
              Sheet and a year-to-date Income Statement), as of two months 
              before the date on which the Standing Offer Authority 
              requests this information.

       (c)    If the Offeror has not been in business for at least one full 
              fiscal year, the following must be provided:

              (i)    the opening Balance Sheet on commencement of business 
                     (in the case of a corporation, the date of 
                     incorporation); and

              (ii)   interim financial statements (consisting of a Balance 
                     Sheet and a year-to-date Income Statement) as of two 
                     months before to the date on which the Standing Offer 
                     Authority requests this information.

       (d)    A certification from the Chief Financial Officer or an 
              authorized signing officer of the Offeror that the financial 
              information provided is complete and accurate.

       (e)    A confirmation letter from all of the financial institution(s) 
              that have provided short-term financing to the Offeror 
              outlining the total of lines of credit granted to the Offeror 
              and the amount of credit that remains available and not drawn 
              upon as of one month prior to the date on which the Standing 
              Offer Authority requests this information.

       (f)    A detailed monthly Cash Flow Statement, covering all the 
              Offeror's activities (including the requirement) for the 
              first two years of the requirement that is the subject of the 
              Request for Standing Offers (RFSO).  This statement must 
              detail the Offeror's major sources and amounts of cash and 
              the major items of cash expenditures on a monthly basis, for 
              all the Offeror's activities.  All assumptions made should be 
              explained as well as details of how cash shortfalls will be 
              financed. 

       (g)    A detailed monthly Project Cash Flow Statement covering the 
              first two years of the requirement that is the subject of the 
              RFSO.  This statement must detail the Offeror's major sources 
              and amounts of cash and the major items of cash expenditures, 
              for the requirement, on a monthly basis.  All assumptions 
              made should be explained as well as details of how cash 
              shortfalls will be financed.

2.     If the Offeror is a joint venture, the financial information 
       required by the Standing Offer Authority must be provided by each 
       member of the joint venture.

3.     If the Offeror is a subsidiary of another company, then any 
       financial information required by the Standing Offer Authority in 1. 
       (a) to (f) must be provided by each level of parent company, to and 
       including the ultimate parent company.  Provision of parent company 
       financial information does not satisfy the requirement for the 
       provision of the financial information of the Offeror and the 
       financial capability of a parent cannot be substituted for the 
       financial capability of the Offeror itself, unless a duly executed 
       Parental Guarantee is provided with the required information.

4.     <strong>Other Information</strong>:  Canada reserves the right to request from the 
       Offeror any other information that Canada requires to conduct a 
       complete financial capability assessment of the Offeror. 

5.     <strong>Confidentiality</strong>:  Should the Offeror provide the information 
       required above to Canada in confidence while indicating that the 
       disclosed information is confidential, then Canada will treat the 
       information in a confidential manner as permitted by the <em>Access to 
       Information Act</em>, R.S., 1985, c. A-1, Section 20(1) (b) and (c). 

6.     <strong>Security</strong>:  In determining the Offeror's financial capability to 
   undertake this requirement, Canada may consider any security the Offeror 
   is capable of providing, at the Offeror's sole expense (for example, an 
   irrevocable letter of credit from a registered financial institution 
   drawn in favour of Canada, a performance guarantee from a third party or 
   some other form of security, as determined by Canada).
</pre>