<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>9601-2 00     (2004-12-10)  Software Development/Modification Services</strong>


<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation

<strong>Part I - Development of Detailed Design</strong>

02     Application of Part I
03     Functional Specifications
04     Detailed Design Specifications
05     Review Period
06     Design Warranty

<strong>Part II - Implementation of Custom Software</strong>

07     Application of Part II
08     Coding and Pre-Installation Tests
09     New Source Code 
10     Pre-Existing Software
11     Object Code and User Documentation
12     Conversion of Data Files
13     Acceptance Tests
14     Warranty

<strong>Part III - Title and Risk</strong>

15     Title to Media
16     Risk of Loss
17     Title to Developed Software


<strong>9601-2 01     (2004-12-10)  Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires,

       "Custom Software" means the computer programs, data bases and 
       documentation which Canada wishes to develop, or to have developed, 
       either as new or substantially new software or by modification of 
       existing software, all as described in the Contract;

       "Canada", "Crown", "Her Majesty", "the Government" means Her Majesty 
       the Queen in right of Canada;

       "Detailed Design Specifications" means the specifications for the 
       detailed technical design of the Custom Software;

       "Functional Specifications" means the functional description of the 
       Custom Software which is set out or referred to in the Contract, and 
       which specifies the functions which the Custom Software is to 
       perform and the features and capacities which the Custom Software 
       must have;

       "General Conditions" means the general conditions 9601 or 9624, 
       whichever forms part of the Contract; 

2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these supplemental general conditions shall have the meanings 
       assigned to them in the General Conditions.

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these supplemental general conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these supplemental general conditions shall prevail.

4.     The sections of the General Conditions entitled "Title" and "
       Warranty" do not apply to the Custom Software or to the media 
       referred to in section 15.  The title and warranty provisions 
       contained in these supplemental general conditions apply in place of 
       those sections.

<strong>Part I - Development of Detailed Design</strong>

<strong>9601-2 02     (1994-01-04)  Application of Part I</strong><strong></strong>

This Part applies if the Contract requires the Contractor either to design 
the Custom Software or to further develop an existing technical design for 
the Custom Software.

<strong>9601-2 03     (1994-01-04)  Functional Specifications</strong>

If the Functional Specifications are to be further developed by the 
Contractor under the Contract, and if the Functional Specifications 
thereafter developed by the Contractor are accepted by Canada, then the 
developed Functional Specifications shall be deemed to be incorporated in 
the Contract by reference, and shall supersede the Functional 
Specifications which were originally incorporated in the Contract.

<strong>9601-2 04     (1994-01-04)  Detailed Design Specifications</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall develop the Detailed Design Specifications for 
       the Custom Software in conformity with the Functional Specifications 
       and all other requirements of the Contract.

2.     Notwithstanding anything contained in section 05, the inspection 
       procedures set out in section 05 shall only apply in the absence of 
       any other detailed procedure in the Contract for review by Canada of 
       the Detailed Design Specifications developed by the Contractor.

<strong>9601-2 05     (1994-01-04)  Review Period</strong>

1.     In this section, unless otherwise indicated in the Contract, "Review 
       Period" means a period of five (5) working days from the date on 
       which the Detailed Design Specifications are to be submitted to 
       Canada in accordance with the terms of the Contract, or from the 
       actual date of submission of those Specifications by the Contractor, 
       whichever is later.

2.     The Review Period may be extended by Canada by an additional five (5) 
       working days by notice given to the Contractor by the Technical 
       Authority within the Review Period.

3.     During the Review Period, Canada shall inspect the Detailed Design 
       Specifications submitted by the Contractor and, within two (2) 
       working days following the end of the Review Period, shall advise 
       the Contractor whether or not the Detailed Design Specifications 
       have passed inspection.

4.     If the Detailed Design Specifications submitted by the Contractor 
       are inconsistent with the Functional Specifications, or fail in any 
       other way to meet the requirements of the Contract, Canada shall 
       prepare a written description of the deficiencies, and shall deliver 
       such description to the Contractor within two (2) working days 
       following the end of the Review Period.

5.     Upon receipt of Canada's description of the deficiencies mentioned 
       in subsection 4, the Contractor shall thereupon modify the Detailed 
       Design Specifications to correct the deficiencies and shall promptly 
       submit the corrected Work to Canada for inspection.

6.     During a second Review Period, Canada shall inspect the corrected 
       Work submitted to Canada pursuant to subsection 5, and subsections 3 
       and 4 shall apply to that inspection.

7.     Notwithstanding anything else contained in this section, the 
       Contractor shall ensure that the Detailed Design Specifications 
       developed by the Contractor pass inspection by Canada within thirty 
       (30) days from the date on which the Detailed Design Specifications 
       were originally to be submitted by the Contractor to Canada in 
       accordance with the terms of the Contract.

<strong>9601-2 06     (1994-01-04)  Design Warranty</strong>

1.     Notwithstanding inspection of the Detailed Design Specifications by 
       Canada, the Contractor warrants that the Detailed Design 
       Specifications will be derived from and be in accordance and 
       consistent with the Functional Specifications and all other 
       requirements of the Contract.

2.     If Part II of these supplemental general conditions applies, the 
       warranty set forth in subsection 1 shall expire on the date of 
       expiry of the Warranty Period referred to in section 14.  If Part II 
       does not apply, the warranty set forth in subsection 1 shall expire 
       upon acceptance of the Work by Canada.

<strong>Part II - Implementation of Custom Software</strong>

<strong>9601-2 07     (1994-01-04)  Application of Part II</strong>

This Part applies if the Contract requires the Contractor to develop the 
Custom Software based on the Detailed Design Specifications and the 
Functional Specifications.

<strong>9601-2 08     (1994-01-04)  Coding and Pre-Installation Tests</strong>

1.     In the development of the Custom Software, the Contractor shall 
       carry out all detailed programming and coding required in conformity 
       with the Detailed Design Specifications, and, if necessary, shall 
       revise the Detailed Design Specifications in order to ensure that 
       they are derived from and are consistent with the Functional 
       Specifications and all other requirements of the Contract.

2.     The Contractor shall conduct pre-installation testing to ensure that 
       the Custom Software will operate in conformity with the Functional 
       Specifications and all other requirements of the Contract.  The 
       Contractor shall notify the Technical Authority of all such tests 
       and, upon the request of the Technical Authority, will give the 
       Technical Authority an opportunity to witness those tests, and a 
       copy of all intermediate and final test records and results.

<strong>9601-2 09     (1994-01-04)  New Source Code</strong>

1.     In this section, "New Source Code" means all of the source code for 
       the Custom Software that is written by the Contractor or any 
       Subcontractor as part of the Work under the Contract.

2.     The Contractor shall deliver the New Source Code to Canada at such 
       time or times as the Contract may require, or, if no other time is 
       specified, within thirty (30) days following acceptance of the 
       Custom Software by Canada.

3.     The New Source Code furnished by the Contractor shall contain a 
       complete description of the operation of the developed software in 
       sufficient detail to enable a programmer, experienced in the 
       programming language or languages in which the source code is 
       written, to modify all aspects of that software without assistance 
       from the Contractor.

<strong>9601-2 10     (2004-12-10)  Pre-Existing Software</strong>

1.     In this section, "Pre-Existing Software" means software that is not 
       developed as part of the Work under the Contract, and that is 
       proprietary to the Contractor or any of its subcontractors or other 
       suppliers. 
2.     The Contractor shall not develop the Custom Software by modifying 
       Pre-Existing Software, or incorporate any Pre-Existing Software into 
       the Custom Software, without the prior written consent of the 
       Contracting Authority.

3.     Notwithstanding subsection 2, the Contractor is not obligated to 
       seek the consent of the Contracting Authority in relation to any 
       Pre-Existing Software the use of which is specifically authorized in 
       the Contract.

4.     If Pre-Existing Software forms part of the Custom Software, and if 
       the Contract does not otherwise require the Contractor to deliver 
       the source code for that software to Canada or to put that source 
       code into escrow for the benefit of Canada, the Contractor shall, at 
       its option and expense, either:

       (a)    deliver the source code for that software to Canada within 
              thirty (30) days following acceptance of the Custom Software 
              by Canada; or

       (b)    deliver that source code, at the time mentioned in paragraph 
              (a), to an escrow agent approved by the Minister to be held 
              in trust by that agent for release to Canada upon the 
              occurrence of any of the following events:

              (i)    Canada terminates for default the Contract or any 
                     subsequent support or development arrangement relating 
                     to the Custom Software;

              (ii)   the Contractor or its supplier defaults in the 
                     performance of its obligations under the escrow 
                     agreement relating to the source code;

              (iii)  the Contractor or its supplier ceases to do business 
                            in the ordinary course, or ceases to make 
                            support or development services in relation to 
                            the Custom Software reasonably available to 
                            Canada;

              (iv)   the Contractor or its supplier becomes bankrupt or 
                     insolvent, makes an assignment for the benefit of 
                     creditors, or takes the benefit of any statute 
                     relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors;

              (v)    a receiver is appointed for the Contractor or its 
                     supplier under a debt instrument, or a receiving order 
                     is made against the Contractor or its supplier; or

              (vi)   an order is made or a resolution passed for the 
                     winding up of the Contractor or its supplier.

5.     The source code delivered by the Contractor to Canada, or to any 
       escrow agent, in relation to any Pre-Existing Software that forms 
       part of the Custom Software, shall contain a complete description of 
       the operation of that Pre-Existing Software in sufficient detail to 
       enable a programmer, experienced in the programming language or 
       languages in which the source code is written, to modify all aspects 
       of that software without assistance from the Contractor.  If the 
       source code for the Pre-Existing Software is to be delivered to an 
       escrow agent, the Contractor shall ensure that the source code in 
       the possession of the escrow agent is updated from time to time to 
       correspond with the most current version of the object code in the 
       possession of Canada.

6.     Unless otherwise provided in the Contract, or in any escrow 
       agreement signed by Canada, Canada's rights to use, copy, modify and 
       disclose any Pre-Existing Software supplied under the Contract, and 
       any source code for that software, shall be identical to those set 
       out in supplemental general conditions 9601-4.

7.     Without limiting the generality of the section entitled "
       Subcontracting" in the General Conditions, the Contractor shall 
       impose on its subcontractors and other suppliers the obligations to 
       Canada imposed under this section, and shall ensure that those 
       obligations are carried out.

<strong>9601-2 11     (1994-01-04)  Object Code and User Documentation</strong>

1.     Without limiting any of the Contractor's other obligations under the 
       Contract, including its obligation with respect to the supply of 
       source code, the Contractor shall furnish all of the developed or 
       modified programs to Canada in executable object code.

2.     The operating manuals, technical manuals, and other user 
       documentation furnished by the Contractor to Canada for use with the 
       Custom Software shall describe the operation of the Custom Software 
       in sufficient detail to enable appropriately trained employees of 
       Canada to use all functions and features of the Custom Software 
       without assistance from the Contractor.

<strong>9601-2 12     (1994-01-04)  Conversion of Data Files</strong>

Where indicated in the Contract, the Contractor shall convert Canada's 
machine-readable data files, as they exist on any existing computer system 
used to fulfil all or part of the then-current functional requirements of 
Canada, to data files designed for use with the Custom Software.  Canada is 
responsible for the accuracy and the completeness of data files delivered 
to the Contractor, and the Contractor is responsible for the accuracy and 
completeness of the data files after conversion, and for the compatibility 
of such data files with the Custom Software.

<strong>9601-2 13     (1994-01-04)  Acceptance Tests</strong> 
1.     Notwithstanding anything else contained in this section, the 
       acceptance procedures set out in subsections 2 to 5 inclusive shall 
       only apply in the absence of any other detailed acceptance 
       procedures for the Custom Software set out or referred to in the 
       Contract.

2.     Canada shall prepare and provide to the Contractor acceptance test 
       data prior to the date specified in the Contract for the start of 
       pre-installation testing of the Custom Software.  Canada will 
       consult with the Contractor in connection with the preparation of 
       such data, and the Contractor shall assist in such preparation to 
       the extent indicated in the Contract.  Such data shall be used by 
       Canada and the Contractor to determine whether the Custom Software, 
       when executed on the hardware and its operating system, performs in 
       accordance with the Functional Specifications and all other 
       requirements of the Contract.  Unless otherwise agreed, the test 
       data shall be in the format and media required for direct input to 
       the computer system, as defined in the Detailed Design 
       Specifications.

3.     Following receipt of the acceptance test data referred to in 
       subsection 2, and prior to the date specified in the Contract for 
       the start of acceptance testing of the Custom Software (the "Test 
       Start Date"), the Contractor shall provide an "Acceptance Test Plan" 
       to Canada for Canada's review and approval.  The Acceptance Test 
       Plan shall consist of a description of a series of tasks and 
       verifications, based on the acceptance test data, in sufficient 
       detail to enable Canada and the Contractor to determine whether the 
       Custom Software performs in accordance with the Functional 
       Specifications and all other requirements of the Contract.

4.     On the Test Start Date, the acceptance tests in relation to the 
       Custom Software shall commence using the pre-approved Acceptance 
       Test Plan referred to in subsection 3.  The acceptance tests shall 
       be conducted over such period of time as is specified therefor in 
       the Contract, or, if no other acceptance testing period is specified, 
       over a 40-day period from the Test Start Date.  If the Custom 
       Software passes the acceptance tests, and if the Contractor has 
       completed all other Work under the Contract in accordance with the 
       terms of the Contract, the Technical Authority shall promptly give 
       notice to the Contractor that the Custom Software is accepted.

5.     If the Custom Software fails to pass the acceptance tests referred 
       to in subsection 4, Canada shall prepare a written description of 
       the deficiencies and deliver such description to the Contractor 
       within ten (10) days following the end of the acceptance testing 
       period referred to in that subsection.  Upon receipt of Canada's 
       description of the deficiencies, the Contractor shall thereupon 
       modify the Custom Software to correct the deficiencies and shall do 
       so within ten (10) days of receipt of such description.  All  
       acceptance tests in relation to the Custom Software shall then be 
       repeated, at no additional cost to Canada, and the Contractor shall 
       ensure that the Custom Software passes the second set of acceptance 
       tests within the acceptance testing period.

6.     Notwithstanding anything else contained in this section, if Canada 
       is unable to commence or continue the acceptance tests in relation 
       to the Custom Software because of an act in Canada's sovereign 
       capacity or the occurrence of an event of force majeure, the 
       acceptance tests may be temporarily suspended for a period of time 
       not to exceed sixty (60) days.  The time limits for testing referred 
       to in this section or elsewhere in the Contract shall in such cases 
       be extended by the number of calendar days of the suspension.  If 
       the delay exceeds sixty (60) days, the Parties shall thereafter use 
       reasonable efforts to negotiate a mutually acceptable amendment to 
       the Contract.

<strong>9601-2 14     (1994-01-04)  Warranty</strong>

1.     In this section, unless otherwise indicated in the Contract, "
       Warranty Period" means a period of ninety (90) days commencing on 
       the date of completion of the whole of the Work by the Contractor, 
       and acceptance of the whole of the Work by Canada, with the 
       exception only of warranty work.

2.     Notwithstanding inspection and acceptance of the Custom Software by 
       Canada and without restricting any term or condition of the Contract 
       or any condition, warranty or provision implied or imposed by law, 
       the Contractor warrants that, during the Warranty Period, the Custom 
       Software will perform in accordance with the Functional 
       Specifications and all other requirements of the Contract on the 
       computer system on which the Custom Software is installed under the 
       Contract.

3.     During the Warranty Period, the Contractor shall, as soon as 
       possible, provide, at no additional charge to Canada, corrections to 
       the Custom Software where Canada notifies the Contractor in writing 
       of any failure of the Custom Software to perform in accordance with 
       the Functional Specifications or any other requirement of the 
       Contract.  If Canada reports a failure to the Contractor, Canada 
       shall give the Contractor reasonable access to the computer system 
       on which the Custom Software resides, and shall provide such 
       information as the Contractor may reasonably request, including 
       sample output and other information, in order to permit the 
       Contractor to expeditiously correct the error which caused that 
       failure.

4.     Although the Contractor shall use all reasonable efforts to provide 
       permanent corrections for all software errors, Canada acknowledges 
       that certain errors may not be permanently corrected by the 
       Contractor under the warranty set out in this section.  The 
       Contractor shall provide a software patch or by-pass around the 
       error in all cases where the error will not be permanently corrected.  
       As a minimum, any such software patch or by-pass shall cause the 
       Custom Software to meet the functional and performance criteria set 
       out in the Functional Specifications.

5.     The Contractor is not obligated to correct errors in the Custom 
       Software which result from modifications to the Custom Software or 
       any part thereof unless those modifications were made by the 
       Contractor or by someone authorized by the Contractor to perform 
       those modifications.


<strong>Part III - Title and Risk</strong>

<strong>9601-2 15     (1994-01-04)  Title to Media</strong>

1.     For the purposes of this section, the term "media" does not include 
       the information stored on the media.

2.     All documents, magnetic tapes and any other tangible media 
       containing the Custom Software or any part thereof, or containing 
       any specification, design, prototype or other information furnished 
       as part of the Work, shall become the property of Canada upon the 
       earlier of delivery to and acceptance thereof by Canada or upon any 
       payment being made to the Contractor for or on account of the media 
       or the information stored thereon, either by way of progress 
       payments or accountable advances or otherwise.  It is agreed that 
       the vesting of title in Canada shall not constitute acceptance by 
       Canada of the media or of the information stored thereon and shall 
       not relieve the Contractor of its obligation to perform the Work in 
       conformity with the requirements of the Contract.

<strong>9601-2 16     (1994-01-04)  Risk of Loss</strong>

1.     Risk of loss of or damage to the media referred to in section 15, or 
       to the information stored thereon, shall pass to Canada upon 
       delivery of the media to Canada in accordance with the Contract, 
       provided, however, that if the Contractor has retained a copy of the 
       information that was stored on the media, the Contractor shall, upon 
       the request of the Minister, replace the lost or damaged media and 
       information at no additional charge to Canada except for any charge 
       for costs reasonably and properly incurred in the carrying out of 
       such replacement.

2.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, the Contractor shall be liable for 
       loss of or damage to the media and the information stored thereon 
       that is caused by the Contractor or any of its subcontractors after 
       delivery.

<strong>9601-2 17     (1994-01-04)  Title to Developed Software</strong>

1.     For the purposes of this section, "Developed Software" includes 
       object code, source code, documentation, data bases, specifications, 
       designs, prototypes and other related information conceived, 
       developed or produced as part of the Work under the Contract.

2.     Title to the Developed Software shall vest either in Canada or the 
       Contractor, whichever is indicated in the intellectual property 
       provisions of the Contract.  If title vests in the Contractor, the 
       Contractor grants to Canada the license with respect to the 
       Developed Software set out or referred to in those provisions.

3.     The provisions of this section shall not be interpreted so as to 
       limit in any way the intellectual property provisions of the 
       Contract.

</pre>
</div>