<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     In the event of a disagreement regarding any aspect of the Services 
       or any instructions given under the Agreement:

       (a)    the Consultant may give a notice of disagreement to the 
              Departmental Representative.  Such notice shall be promptly 
              given and contain the particulars of the disagreement, any 
              changes in time or amounts claimed, and reference to the 
              relevant clauses of the Agreement;

       (b)    the Consultant shall continue to perform the Services in 
              accordance with the instructions of the Departmental 
              Representative; and

       (c)    the Consultant and the Departmental Representative shall 
              attempt to resolve the disagreement by negotiations conducted 
              in good faith. The negotiations shall be conducted, first, at 
              the level of the Consultant's project representative and the 
              Departmental Representative and, secondly and if necessary, 
              at the level of a principal of the Consultant firm and a 
              senior departmental manager.

2.     The Consultant's continued performance of the Services in accordance 
       with the instructions of the Departmental Representative shall not 
       jeopardize the legal position of the Consultant in any disagreement.

3.     If it was subsequently agreed or determined that the instructions 
       given were in error or contrary to the Agreement, Canada shall pay 
       the Consultant those fees the Consultant shall have earned as a 
       result of the change(s) in the Services provided, together with 
       those reasonable disbursements arising from the change(s) and which 
       have been authorized by the Departmental Representative.

4.     The fees mentioned in subsection 3 shall be calculated in accordance 
       with the Terms of Payment set out in the Agreement.

5.     If the disagreement is not settled, the Consultant may make a 
       request to the Departmental Representative for a written 
       departmental decision and the Departmental Representative shall give 
       notice of the departmental decision within fourteen (14) days of 
       receiving the request, setting out the particulars of the response 
       and any relevant clauses of the Agreement.

6.     Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written departmental 
       decision, the Consultant shall notify the Departmental 
       Representative if the Consultant accepts or rejects the decision.

7.     If the Consultant rejects the departmental decision, the Consultant, 
       by notice may refer the disagreement to Mediation.

8.     If the disagreement is referred to Mediation, the Mediation shall be 
       conducted with the assistance of a skilled and experienced mediator 
       chosen by the Consultant from a list of mediators proposed by the 
       Minister, and departmental Mediation procedures shall be used unless 
       the parties agree otherwise.

9.     Negotiations conducted under the Agreement, including those 
       conducted during Mediation, shall be without prejudice.

</pre>