<pre><strong>Hazardous Material</strong>:

1.     The nature, quantity and United Nations number of any hazardous 
       material are to be included with each hazardous item, in accordance 
       with the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code and the latest 
       International Air Transport Association regulations.

2.     Non-compliance with this requirement will render the Supplier liable 
       for any punitive action that may be taken by regulating authorities.

3.     Documents are to be distributed as follows:

       (a)    To the :

              Traffic Management Directorate
              Department of Public Works and Government Services (DPWGS)
              Place du Portage, Phase III
              Hull, Quebec   K1A 0S5

              <strong>NOT LATER THAN ONE DAY AFTER THE SHIPMENT LEAVES YOUR PLANT</strong>:

              -      two (2) copies of the commercial invoice;
              -      one (1) copy must indicate:

                     (1)    shipping weight of goods named in the invoice;
                     (2)    point of shipment;
                     (3)    mode of transport;

       (b)    one (1) copy of the detailed packing list;

       (c)    three (3) copies of the inspection report, if inspection is 
              required by terms of the Contract;

       (d)    one (1) copy of inland bill of lading or receipt from 
              Panalpina Inc.

4.     To:    Panalpina Inc.
              11100 chemin Saint-François
              Ville Saint-Laurent, Quebec  H4S 1N1
 
<strong>WHEN SHIPMENT LEAVES YOUR PLANT</strong>:

-      two (2) copies of the commercial invoice;
-      two (2) copies of the detailed packing list.

1.     To the Canadian International Development Agency, at the address to 
       which invoices are to be forwarded:

       (a)    the original and four (4) copies of the commercial invoice;

       The Contractor shall include the following statement on all invoices:

              "We certify that prices on this invoice exclude the Goods and 
              Services Tax, the Harmonized Sales Tax, sales tax, refundable 
              customs duty and excise tax paid on goods or on parts and 
              components incorporated in the goods."

       (b)    one (1) signed copy of the inspection report, if inspection 
              is required by the Contract;

       (c)    one (1) copy of the receipt from the marshalling Contractor 
              indicating acceptance by them.

2.     To the DPWGS Contracting Authority:

       One (1) copy of the commercial invoice.


</pre>