<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Tender Documents
02     Completion of Tender
03     Signing Procedures
04     Goods and Services Tax
05     Quebec Sales Tax
06     Capital Development and Re-development Charges
07     Bid Depository
08     Registry and Pre-qualification of Floating Plant
09     Listing of Subcontractors and Suppliers
10     Tender Security Requirements
11     Submission of Tender
12     Revision of Tender
13     Acceptance of Tender
14     Language of the Tender and Contract Documents
15     Contract Security Requirements

<strong>01     (12/05/00)    Tender Documents</strong>

1.1    The following are the tender documents:

       .1     Special Instructions to Tenderers
       .2     Tender Form;
       .3     Plans and Specifications "A";
       .4     General Instructions to Tenderers R0001T (12/05/00), referred 
              to in the tender documents as the General Instructions to 
              Tenderers;
       .5     Articles of Agreement R0200C (15/06/98), referred to therein 
              as the Articles of Agreement;
       .6     Terms of Payment "B" R0201D (16/02/98), referred to in the 
              Articles of Agreement as the Terms of Payment;
       .7     General Conditions "C" R0202D (12/05/00), referred to in the 
              Articles of Agreement as the General Conditions;
       .8     Labour Conditions "D" R0203D (16/02/98), referred to in the 
              Articles of Agreement as the Labour Conditions;
       .9     Insurance Conditions "E" R0204D (16/02/98), referred to in 
              the Articles of Agreement as the Insurance Conditions;
       .10    Contract Security Conditions "F" R0205D (12/05/00), referred 
              to in the Articles of Agreement as the Contract Security 
              Conditions;
       .11    Any addenda issued before the date set for tender closing.

1.2    The tender documents identified in 1.1.4 to 1.1.10 inclusive by 
       title, number and date are hereby incorporated by reference into the 
       tender documents and form part of the tender and any resulting 
       contract.  Submission of a tender constitutes acknowledgement that 
       the Tenderer has read and agrees to be bound by these documents and 
       the other documents listed in 1.1.

1.3    Documents incorporated by reference are issued by Public Works and 
       Government Services Canada and may be obtained in print copy through 
       the Bid Request Line (BRL) in the same manner that tender packages 
       are obtained.  The BRL telephone number is (XXX) XXX-XXXX in the 
       National Capital region or 1 (800) XXX-XXXX elsewhere in Canada.  
       Documents referenced may also be viewed on MERX electronic bulletin 
       board and at the following PWGSC Internet address: http://www.pwgsc.gc.ca.

<strong>02     (12/05/00)    Completion of Tender</strong>

2.1    The tender shall be:  
       2.1.1  be submitted on the Tender Form provided through MERX or on a 
              clear and legible reproduced copy of said Tender Form; the 
              reproduced copy must be identical in every respect to the 
              Tender Form provided through MERX;

       2.1.2  not be delivered to the Bid Receiving Unit by means of 
              facsimile transmission; facsimile copies of tenders are not 
              acceptable;

       2.1.3  be based on the tender documents listed above;

       2.1.4  be correctly completed in all respects;

       2.1.5  be signed in accordance with the signing procedures set out 
              herein; the signature of the signatory shall be an original; 
              and

       2.1.6  be accompanied by

              2.1.6.1       the tender security as specified herein; and

              2.1.6.2       any other document or documents specified 
                     elsewhere in the solicitation where it is stipulated 
                     that said documents are to accompany the tender.

2.2    The solicitation documentation is not available for distribution on 
       the actual day of tender closing.

2.3    Any alteration to the preprinted or pre-typed sections of the Tender 
       Form, or any condition or qualification placed upon the tender shall 
       be direct cause for disqualification.  Alterations, corrections, 
       changes or erasures made to statements or figures entered on the 
       Tender Form by the Tenderer shall be initialed by the person or 
       persons signing the tender.  Initials shall be original(s).  
       Alterations, corrections, changes or erasures that are not initialed 
       shall be deemed void and without effect.

<strong>03     (01/01/96)    Signing Procedures</strong>

3.1    The tender shall be signed in accordance with the following 
requirements:

       .1     <strong>Corporation -</strong> The signatures of the authorized signatories 
              shall be affixed and their names and titles typed or printed 
              in the space provided and the corporate seal may be affixed. 
              If the corporate seal is not affixed to the tender, the 
              signatures shall be witnessed and proof of signing authority 
              shall be provided.  In the Province of Quebec signatures must 
              be witnessed and, except when a director signs the tender, 
              proof of signing authority shall be provided whether or not a 
              corporate seal is affixed.  

       .2     <strong>Partnership -</strong> The signatures of the partners shall be affixed 
              and their names typed or printed in the space provided.  The 
              signatures shall be witnessed, and if not all of the partners 
              sign or if the signatory is not a partner then a certified 
              true copy of the agreement signed by all partners authorizing 
              such person or persons to execute the document on their 
              behalf shall accompany the tender.  An adhesive coloured seal 
              shall be affixed next to each signature except in the 
              Province of Quebec.<strong class="wsStyleUnderline"></strong>

       .3     <strong>Sole Proprietorship -</strong> The signature of the sole proprietor 
              shall be affixed and the name typed or printed in the space 
              provided.  The signature shall be witnessed.  In the event 
              that the signatory is not the sole proprietor then a 
              certified true copy of the agreement signed by the sole 
              proprietor authorizing such person or persons to execute the 
              document shall accompany the tender.  An adhesive coloured 
              seal shall be affixed next to the signature except in the 
              Province of Quebec.

       .4     <strong>Joint Venture</strong> - The signatures of the authorized signatories 
              of each member of the joint venture shall be affixed and 
              their names and titles typed or printed in the space provided. 
              Each of the participating signatories shall sign the document 
              in the manner applicable to their particular business 
              arrangement which is more particularly described in 3.1.1 to 
              3.1.3 above.

<strong>04     (12/05/00)    Goods and Services Tax</strong>

4.1    Tenders are not to include any amounts for the Goods and Services 
       Tax (GST), and the GST shall not be included when calculating the 
       amount of any tender security or contract security which may be 
       required.  Any amount levied in respect of the GST will be billed as 
       a separate item in a progress claim submitted by the Contractor, and 
       will be paid to the Contractor in addition to the amount approved by 
       the Engineer for work performed under the contract.  The Contractor 
       will be required to remit the appropriate amount to Canada Customs 
       and Revenue Agency in accordance with the applicable legislation.

<strong>05     (01/01/96)    Quebec Sales Tax</strong>

5.1    The Federal Government is exempt from the Quebec Sales Tax which 
       took effect on July 1, 1992.  Tenderers shall not include in their 
       prices any amount that is intended to cover the 8% tax on goods and 
       the 4% tax on services performed in the execution of the work except 
       for such amounts for which an Input Tax Refund is not available.  
       Tenderers should make arrangements directly with the Province of 
       Quebec to recover any Quebec Sales Tax paid by them in performing 
       the work under the contract.

<strong>06     (01/01/96)    Capital Development and Re-development Charges</strong>

6.1    For the purposes of GC14 of the General Conditions "C", only fees or 
       charges directly related to the processing and issue of building 
       permits shall be included.  Tenderers shall not include any monies 
       in the tender amount for special municipal development, 
       re-development or other fees or charges which a municipal authority 
       may seek as a prerequisite to the issuance of building permits.

<strong>07     (01/01/96)    Bid Depository</strong>

7.1    If the tender advertisement for the work states that a Bid 
       Depository shall be used for specified parts of the work, the 
       Tenderer shall obtain bids for the specified parts through the 
       designated Bid Depository or, if no bid is available to the Tenderer 
       through the Bid Depository for the particular part or parts of the 
       work specified, from outside the Bid Depository system, all in 
       accordance with the <strong>"Standard Rules of Practice for Bid Depositories 
       (Federal Government Construction Projects)"</strong> as referenced in the 
       Treasury Board Manual - Contracting, Appendix N.

<strong>08     (01/01/96)    Registry and Pre-qualification of Floating Plant</strong>

8.1    Dredges or other floating plant to be used in the performance of the 
       work must be on Canadian registry.  For dredges or other floating 
       plant which are not of Canadian make or manufacture, the Tenderer 
       must obtain a certificate of qualification from Industry Canada as 
       described in the Floating Plant Appendix of the Tender Form, and 
       this certificate must accompany the tender.  Plant so qualified by 
       Industry Canada may be accepted on this dredging project.

<strong>09     (01/01/96)    Listing of Subcontractors and Suppliers</strong>

9.1    Notwithstanding any list of subcontractors which the Tenderer may be 
       required to submit as part of the tender, the Tenderer submitting 
       the lowest acceptable tender shall, within 48 hours of receipt of a 
       notice thereof, submit the names of subcontractors and suppliers for 
       the part or parts of the work listed in the said notice.

<strong>10     (12/05/00)    Tender Security Requirements</strong>

10.1   The Tenderer shall submit tender security with the tender in the 
       form of a bid bond or a security deposit, and 
       .1     if the tender amount is $250,000.00 or less, the tender 
              security shall be equal to not less than 10% of the tender 
              amount;

       .2     if the tender amount is greater than $250,000.00, the tender 
              security shall be equal to not less than $25,000.00 plus an 
              amount that is equal to not less than 5% of that part of the 
              tender amount that exceeds $250,000.00.

       The maximum amount of tender security required with any tender is $250,000.00.

10.2   A bid bond shall be in an approved form and issued by an approved 
       company whose bonds are acceptable to the Government of Canada.

10.3   A security deposit shall be either

       .1     a bill of exchange payable to the Receiver General for Canada, 
              or

       .2     bonds of the Government of Canada or bonds unconditionally 
              guaranteed as to principal and interest by the Government of 
              Canada,

       .3     an irrevocable standby letter of Credit.

10.4   A bill of exchange referred to in 10.3.1 shall be certified by or 
       drawn on

       .1     a corporation or institution that is a member of the Canadian 
              Payments Association, or

       .2     a corporation that accepts deposits that are insured by the 
              Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation or the "Régie de 
              l'assurance-dépôts du Québec" to the maximum permitted by law, 
              or

       .3     a corporation that accepts public deposits and repayment of 
              the deposits is unconditionally guaranteed by Her Majesty in 
              right of a province, or

       .4     a corporation, association or federation incorporated or 
              organized as a credit union or cooperative credit society 
              that conforms to the requirements of a credit union which are 
              more particularly described in paragraph 137 (6)(b) of the <em>
              Income Tax Act</em>, or

       .5     Canada Post Corporation.

10.5   If a bill of exchange is drawn on an institution or corporation 
       other than a chartered bank it must be accompanied by proof that the 
       said institution or corporation meets at least one of the criteria 
       described in 10.4, either by letter or by a stamped certification on 
       the bill of exchange.

10.6   For the purposes of this section a bill of exchange is an 
       unconditional order in writing signed by the Tenderer and addressed 
       to an approved financial institution, requiring the said institution 
       to pay, on demand, at a fixed or determinable time a sum certain of 
       money to, or to the order of, the Receiver General for Canada (e.g. 
       certified cheques, bank drafts, money orders, cashier's cheques etc.).

10.7   Bonds referred to in 10.3.2 shall be provided on the basis of their 
       market value current at the date of tender closing, and shall be 

       .1     payable to bearer, or

       .2     accompanied by a duly executed instrument of transfer of the 
              bonds to the Receiver General for Canada in the form 
              prescribed by the Domestic Bonds of Canada Regulations, or

       .3     registered as to principal or as to principal and interest in 
              the name of the Receiver General for Canada pursuant to the 
              Domestic Bonds of Canada Regulations. 

10.8   An irrevocable standby letter of Credit;

       .1     is any arrangement, however named or described, whereby a 
              financial institution (the "Issuer"), acting at the request 
              and on the instructions of a customer (the "Applicant"), or 
              on its own behalf, is to make a payment to or to the order of 
              Canada, as the beneficiary, or is to accept and pay bills of 
              exchange drawn by Canada, or authorizes another financial 
              institution to effect such payment, or accept and pay such 
              bills of exchange, or authorizes another financial 
              institution to negotiate, against written demand(s) for 
              payment provided that the terms and conditions of the letter 
              of credit are complied with.

       .2     states the face amount which may be drawn against it;

       .3     states its expiry date;

       .4     provides for sight payment to the Receiver General for Canada 
              by way of the financial institutions' draft against 
              presentation of a written demand for payment signed by the 
              authorized departmental representative identified in the 
              letter of credit by his/her office;

       .5     provides that more than one written demand for payment may be 
              presented subject to the sum of those demands not exceeding 
              the face amount of the Letter of Credit;

       .6     provides that it is subject to the International Chamber of 
              Commerce (ICC) Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary 
              Credits, 1993 Revision, ICC Publication No. 500;

       .7     clearly specifies that it is irrevocable or deemed to be 
              irrevocable pursuant to article 6c) of the International 
              Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Uniform Customs and Practice for 
              Documentary Credits, 1993 Revision, ICC Publication No. 500; 
              and

       .8     is issued or confirmed, in either official language, by a 
              financial institution which is a member of the Canadian 
              Payments Association and is on the letterhead of the Issuer 
              or Confirmer.  The format is left to the discretion of the 
              Issuer or Confirmer.

<strong>11     (12/05/00)    Submission of Tender</strong>

11.1   The Tender Form, duly completed, shall be enclosed and sealed in an 
       envelope provided by the Tenderer, and shall be addressed and 
       submitted to the office designated for the receipt of tenders.  It 
       must be received on or before the date and time set for tender 
       closing.

11.2   Prior to submitting the tender, the Tenderer shall ensure that the 
       following information is clearly printed or typed in the appropriate 
       spaces on the face of the tender return envelope:

       .1     Solicitation Number
       .2     Project Number and Description/Location
       .3     Name of Tenderer
       .4     Closing Time/Date

11.3   Failure to comply with 11.1 and 11.2 may render the tender liable to 
       disqualification.

<strong>12     (01/01/96)    Revision of Tender</strong>

12.1   A tender submitted in accordance with these instructions may be 
       revised by letter or facsimile provided the revision is received at 
       the office designated for the receipt of tenders, on or before the 
       date and time set for the closing of tenders.  The facsimile must be 
       on the contractor's letterhead or bear a signature that identifies 
       the contractor.  A revision to a unit price tender must clearly 
       identify the change(s) in the unit price(s) and the specific item(s) 
       to which each change applies.

<strong>13     (12/05/00)    Acceptance of Tender</strong>

13.1   Her Majesty may accept any tender, whether it is the lowest or not, 
       or may reject any or all tenders.

13.2   Without limiting the generality of 13.1, Her Majesty may reject any 
       tender based on an unfavourable assessment of:

       .1     the adequacy of the tendered price to permit the work to be 
              carried out and, in the case of a tender providing unit 
              prices or a combination of lump sum and unit prices, whether 
              each such price reasonably reflects the cost of performing 
              the part of the work to which that price applies;

       .2     the Tenderer's ability to provide the necessary management 
              structure, skilled personnel, experience and equipment to 
              perform competently the work under the contract, and

       .3     the Tenderer's performance on other contracts.

13.3   In assessing the Tenderer's performance on other contracts pursuant 
       to 13.2, Her Majesty may consider, but not be limited to, such 
       matters as:

       .1     the quality of workmanship of the Tenderer in performing the 
              work,

       .2     the timeliness of completion of the work, and 

       .3     the Tenderer's overall management of the work and its effect 
              on the level of effort demanded of the department and its 
              representatives.

13.4   Her Majesty may reject a bid where any of the following 
       circumstances is present:

       .1     the Tenderer, or any employee or subcontractor included as 
              part of the Tender, has been convicted under section 121 ("
              Frauds on the government" &amp; "Contractor subscribing to 
              election fund"), 124 ("Selling or purchasing office") or 418 
              ("Selling defective stores to Her Majesty") of the Criminal 
              Code;

       .2     the Tenderer's bidding privileges are suspended or are in the 
              process of being suspended;

       .3     the bidding privileges of any employee or subcontractor 
              included as part of the Tender have been suspended or are in 
              the process of being suspended, which suspension or pending 
              suspension would render that employee or subcontractor 
              ineligible to bid on the Work, or the portion of the Work the 
              employee or subcontractor is to perform;

       .4     with respect to current or prior transactions with the 
              Government of Canada

              .1     the Tenderer is bankrupt or where, for whatever reason, 
                     its activities are rendered inoperable for an extended 
                     period;

              .2     evidence, satisfactory to Her Majesty, of fraud, 
                     bribery, fraudulent misrepresentation or failure to 
                     comply with any law protecting individuals against any 
                     manner of discrimination, has been received with 
                     respect to the Tenderer, any of its employees or any 
                     subcontractor included as part of its Tender;

              .3     the Minister has previously exercised or intends to 
                     exercise the contractual remedy of taking the work out 
                     of the contractor's hands with respect to a Contract 
                     with the Tenderer, any of its employees or any 
                     subcontractor included as part of its Tender; or 
              .4     Her Majesty determines that the Tenderer's performance 
                     on other contracts, including the efficiency and 
                     workmanship as well as the extent to which the 
                     Tenderer executed the work in accordance with 
                     contractual terms and conditions, is sufficiently poor 
                     to jeopardize the successful completion of the 
                     requirement being bid on.

13.5   Where Her Majesty intends to reject a Tender pursuant to a provision 
       of clause 13.4, other than subclause 13.4.2, the Minister will so 
       inform the Tenderer and provide the Tenderer ten (10) days within 
       which to make representations, prior to making a final decision on 
       the Tender rejection.

<strong>14     (01/01/96)    Language of the Tender and Contract Documents</strong>

14.1   The contract documents to be signed by the successful Tenderer shall 
       be in the same official language (English or French) as the language 
       of the tender documents submitted.

<strong>15     (01/01/96)    Contract Security Requirements</strong>

15.1   The successful Tenderer shall be required to provide contract 
       security in accordance with the Contract Security Conditions "F" of 
       the tender documents listed above within fourteen (14) days after 
       receipt of a notice in writing that the tender was accepted by Her 
       Majesty.


</pre>