<pre><strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation

<strong>Part I - Development of Functional Specifications and Detailed Design 
Specifications</strong>

02     Application of Part I
03     Functional Specifications
04     Detailed Design Specifications
05     Inspection Procedures for Detailed Design Specifications 

<strong>Part II - Implementation of Custom Software</strong>

06     Coding and Pre-Installation Tests
07     New Source Code
08     Pre-Existing Software
09     Object Code and User Documentation
10     Conversion of Data Files
11     Acceptance Procedures for Custom Software
12     Warranty

<strong>Part III - Ownership and Risk</strong>

13     Ownership of Media
14     Risk of Loss
15     Ownership of Developed Software


<strong>4002    01    (2008-05-12)  Software Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context requires otherwise,

       "Custom Software" means the computer programs, data bases and 
       documentation that Canada wishes to develop, or to have developed, 
       either as new software or by modification of existing software, all 
       as described in the Contract;

       "Detailed Design Specifications" means the specifications for the 
       detailed technical design of the Custom Software;

       "Functional Specifications" means the functional description of the 
       Custom Software set out or referred to in the Contract specifying 
       the functions the Custom Software must perform and the features and 
       capacities the Custom Software must have;

       "General Conditions" means the general conditions that form part of 
       the Contract; 

2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these supplemental general conditions have the meanings given to 
       them in the General Conditions unless provided otherwise.  If the 
       general conditions contain sections entitled "Ownership" or "
       Warranty", those sections do not apply to the Custom Software.  
       Instead the ownership and warranty provisions in these supplemental 
       general conditions apply to the Custom Software.

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these supplemental general conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these supplemental general conditions will prevail.


<strong>Part I - Development of Functional Specifications and Detailed Design 
Specifications</strong>

<strong>4002   02     (2008-05-12)  Application of Part I</strong>

This Part only applies if the Contract requires the Contractor either to 
design the Custom Software or to further develop an existing technical 
design for the Custom Software.

<strong>4002   03     (2008-05-12)  Functional Specifications</strong>

The Functional Specifications developed by the Contractor under the 
Contract and accepted by Canada are incorporated in the Contract by 
reference and supersede any functional specifications that were originally 
incorporated in the Contract.

<strong>4002   04     (2008-05-12)  Detailed Design Specifications</strong>

The Contractor must develop the Detailed Design Specifications for the 
Custom Software in accordance with the Functional Specifications and all 
other requirements of the Contract.

<strong>4002   05     (2008-05-12)  Inspection Procedures for Detailed Design 
Specifications</strong>

1.     The inspection procedures set out below will only apply in the 
       absence of any other inspection procedures in the Contract.

2.     In this section, "Review Period" means a period of five (5) working 
       days from the date on which the Detailed Design Specifications must 
       be submitted to Canada or from the actual date of submission of 
       those specifications by the Contractor, whichever is later.

3.     Canada may extend the Review Period by an additional five (5) 
       working days by giving notice to the Contractor within the Review 
       Period.

4.     During the Review Period, Canada will inspect the Detailed Design 
       Specifications submitted by the Contractor and, within two (2) 
       working days following the end of the Review Period, will advise the 
       Contractor whether or not the Detailed Design Specifications have 
       passed inspection.

5.     If the Detailed Design Specifications submitted by the Contractor 
       are inconsistent with the Functional Specifications or fail in any 
       other way to meet the requirements of the Contract, Canada will send 
       a written description of the deficiencies to the Contractor within 
       two (2) working days following the end of the Review Period.

6.     Upon receipt of Canada's description of the deficiencies mentioned 
       in subsection 5, the Contractor must immediately modify the Detailed 
       Design Specifications to correct the deficiencies and promptly 
       submit the corrected work to Canada for inspection.

7.     During a second Review Period, Canada will inspect the corrected 
       work submitted to Canada pursuant to subsections 4 and 5.

8.     Despite anything else contained in this section, the Contractor must 
       ensure that the Detailed Design Specifications developed by the 
       Contractor pass inspection by Canada within thirty (30) days of 
       their original delivery date set out in the Contract.


<strong>Part II - Implementation of Custom Software</strong>

<strong>4002   06     (2008-05-12)  Coding and Pre-Installation Tests</strong>

1.     The Contractor must develop the Custom Software based on the 
       Detailed Design Specifications and the Functional Specifications.  
       In the development of the Custom Software, the Contractor must carry 
       out all detailed programming and coding required under the Detailed 
       Design Specifications, and, if necessary, must revise the Detailed 
       Design Specifications in order to ensure that they are derived from 
       and are consistent with the Functional Specifications and all other 
       requirements of the Contract.

2.     The Contractor must conduct pre-installation testing to ensure that 
       the Custom Software will operate in accordance with the Functional 
       Specifications and all other requirements of the Contract.  The 
       Contractor must notify Canada of all such tests.  Upon request from 
       Canada, the Contractor must give Canada an opportunity to witness 
       those tests and provide Canada with a copy of all intermediate and 
       final test records and results.

<strong>4002   07     (2008-05-12)  New Source Code</strong>

1.     In this section, "New Source Code" means all of the source code for 
       the Custom Software that is written by the Contractor or any 
       subcontractor as part of the Work performed under the Contract.

2.     The Contractor must deliver the New Source Code to Canada at such 
       time or times as the Contract may require, and if no time is 
       specified in the Contract, within thirty (30) days following 
       acceptance of the Custom Software by Canada.

3.     The New Source Code provided by the Contractor must contain a 
       complete description of the operation of the developed software in 
       sufficient detail to enable a programmer, experienced in the 
       programming language or languages in which the source code is 
       written, to modify all aspects of that software without assistance 
       from the Contractor.

<strong>4002   08     (2008-05-12)  Pre-Existing Software</strong>

1.     In this section, "Pre-Existing Software" means software that is not 
       developed as part of the Work performed under the Contract and that 
       is proprietary to the Contractor or any of its subcontractors or to 
       a third party.
 
2.     The Contractor must not develop the Custom Software by modifying 
       Pre-Existing Software or incorporate any Pre-Existing Software into 
       the Custom Software without first obtaining the written consent of 
       Canada.  However, the consent of Canada is not required if the use 
       of Pre-Existing Software is specifically authorized in the Contract.

3.     If Pre-Existing Software forms part of the Custom Software, unless 
       provided otherwise  in the Contract, the Contractor must, within 
       thirty (30) days following acceptance of the Custom Software by 
       Canada, at its option and expense, either:

       (a)    deliver the source code for that software to Canada; or

       (b)    deliver the source code to an escrow agent approved by Canada, 
              to be held in trust by that agent, for release to Canada upon 
              the occurrence of any of the following events:

              (i)    Canada terminates either the Contract or any 
                     subsequent support or development arrangement relating 
                     to the Custom Software for default;

              (ii)   the Contractor or its supplier ceases to do business 
                     or ceases to make support or development services in 
                     relation to the Custom Software reasonably available 
                     to Canada;

              (iii)  the Contractor or its supplier becomes bankrupt or 
                     insolvent, makes an assignment for the benefit of 
                     creditors, or takes the benefit of any statute 
                     relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors;

              (iv)   a receiver is appointed for the Contractor or its 
                     supplier under a debt instrument, or a receiving order 
                     is made against the Contractor or its supplier; or

              (v)    an order is made or a resolution passed for the 
                     winding up of the Contractor or its supplier.

4.     The source code delivered by the Contractor to Canada or to any 
       escrow agent, in relation to any Pre-Existing Software that forms 
       part of the Custom Software, must contain a complete description of 
       the operation of that Pre-Existing Software in sufficient detail to 
       enable a programmer, experienced in the programming language or 
       languages in which the source code is written, to modify all aspects 
       of that software without assistance from the Contractor.  If the 
       source code for the Pre-Existing Software is delivered to an escrow 
       agent, the Contractor must ensure that the source code in the 
       possession of the escrow agent is updated from time to time to 
       correspond with the most current version of the object code in the 
       possession of Canada.

5.     Unless provided otherwise in the Contract or in any escrow agreement 
       signed by Canada, Canada's rights to use, copy, modify and disclose 
       any Pre-Existing Software supplied under the Contract and any source 
       code for that software must be identical to those set out in 
       Supplemental General Conditions 4003.

<strong>4002   09     (2008-05-12)  Object Code and User Documentation</strong>

1.     Without limiting any of the Contractor's other obligations under the 
       Contract, including its obligation with respect to the supply of 
       source code, the Contractor must provide the Pre-Existing Software 
       and Custom Software to Canada in executable object code.

2.     The operating manuals, technical manuals and other user 
       documentation provided by the Contractor to Canada for use with the 
       Custom Software must describe the operation of the Custom Software 
       in sufficient detail to enable appropriately trained employees of 
       Canada to use all functions and features of the Custom Software 
       without assistance from the Contractor.

<strong>4002   10     (2008-05-12)  Conversion of Data Files</strong>

The Contractor must convert, as required in the Contract, Canada's 
machine-readable data files, as they exist on any existing computer system 
used to fulfill all or part of the then-current functional requirements of 
Canada, to data files designed for use with the Custom Software.  Canada is 
responsible for the accuracy and the completeness of data files delivered 
to the Contractor.  The Contractor is responsible for the accuracy and 
completeness of the data files after conversion and for the compatibility 
of such data files with the Custom Software.

<strong>4002   11     (2008-05-12)  Acceptance Procedures for Custom Software</strong>

1.     The acceptance procedures set out in subsections 2 to 5 inclusive 
       only apply in the absence of any other detailed acceptance 
       procedures for the Custom Software in the Contract.

2.     Canada must prepare and provide to the Contractor acceptance test 
       data before the date specified in the Contract for the start of 
       pre-installation testing of the Custom Software.  Canada will 
       consult with the Contractor in connection with the preparation of 
       such data and the Contractor must assist in such preparation to the 
       extent indicated in the Contract.  Canada and the Contractor will 
       use such data to determine whether the Custom Software, when 
       executed on the hardware and its operating system, performs in 
       accordance with the Functional Specifications and all other 
       requirements of the Contract.  Unless otherwise agreed, the test 
       data must be in the format and media required for direct input to 
       the computer system, as provided in the Detailed Design 
       Specifications.

3.     Following receipt of the acceptance test data referred to in 
       subsection 2, and before the date specified in the Contract for the 
       start of acceptance testing of the Custom Software (the "Test Start 
       Date"), the Contractor must provide an "Acceptance Test Plan" to 
       Canada for Canada's review and approval.  The Acceptance Test Plan 
       must consist of a description of a series of tasks and verifications, 
       based on the acceptance test data, in sufficient detail to enable 
       Canada and the Contractor to determine whether the Custom Software 
       performs in accordance with the Functional Specifications and all 
       other requirements of the Contract.

4.     On the Test Start Date, Canada must commence the acceptance tests in 
       relation to the Custom Software using the pre-approved Acceptance 
       Test Plan referred to in subsection 3.  The acceptance tests must be 
       conducted during the period of time specified in the Contract.  If 
       no other acceptance testing period is specified in the Contract, the 
       acceptance tests must be conducted over a 40-day period from the 
       Test Start Date.  If the Custom Software passes the acceptance tests 
       and if the Contractor has completed all other work under the 
       Contract in accordance with the conditions of the Contract, Canada 
       will promptly give notice to the Contractor that the Custom Software 
       is accepted.

5.     If the Custom Software fails to pass the acceptance tests referred 
       to in subsection 4, Canada will send a written description of the 
       deficiencies to the Contractor within ten (10) days following the 
       end of the acceptance testing period referred to in that subsection.  
       Upon receipt of Canada's description of the deficiencies, the 
       Contractor must modify the Custom Software to correct the 
       deficiencies within ten (10) days of receipt of such description.  
       All acceptance tests in relation to the Custom Software must then be 
       repeated, at no additional cost to Canada, and the Contractor must 
       ensure that the Custom Software passes the second set of acceptance 
       tests within the acceptance testing period specified in subsection 4.

6.     Despite anything else contained in this section, if Canada is unable 
       to commence or continue the acceptance tests in relation to the 
       Custom Software because of an event reasonably beyond its control, 
       the acceptance tests may be temporarily suspended for a period of 
       time not to exceed sixty (60) days.  The time limits for testing 
       referred to in this section or elsewhere in the Contract will in 
       such cases be extended by the number of days of the suspension.  If 
       the delay exceeds sixty (60) days, the Parties must use reasonable 
       efforts to negotiate a mutually acceptable amendment to the Contract.

<strong>4002   12     (2008-05-12)  Warranty</strong>

1.     In this section, unless provided otherwise in the Contract, "
       Warranty Period" means a period of ninety (90) days commencing on 
       the date of acceptance of the whole of the Work by Canada, with the 
       exception only of warranty work.

2.     Despite inspection and acceptance of the Custom Software by Canada 
       and without restricting any condition of the Contract or any 
       condition, warranty or provision imposed by law, the Contractor 
       warrants that, during the Warranty Period, the Custom Software will 
       perform in accordance with the Functional Specifications and all 
       other requirements of the Contract on the computer system on which 
       the Custom Software is installed under the Contract.

3.     During the Warranty Period, if Canada notifies the Contractor in 
       writing of any failure of the Custom Software to perform in 
       accordance with the Functional Specifications or any other 
       requirement of the Contract, the Contractor must, as soon as 
       possible, provide, at no additional charge to Canada, corrections to 
       the Custom Software.  If Canada reports a failure to the Contractor, 
       Canada must give the Contractor reasonable access to the computer 
       system on which the Custom Software resides and provide such 
       information as the Contractor may reasonably request, including 
       sample output and other information, in order to permit the 
       Contractor to expeditiously correct the error which caused that 
       failure.

4.     Although the Contractor must use all reasonable efforts to provide 
       permanent corrections for all software errors, Canada acknowledges 
       that certain errors may not be permanently corrected by the 
       Contractor under this section.  The Contractor must provide a 
       software patch or by-pass around the error in all cases where the 
       error will not be permanently corrected.  As a minimum, any such 
       software patch or by-pass must cause the Custom Software to meet the 
       functional and performance criteria set out in the Functional 
       Specifications.

5.     The Contractor is not obligated to correct errors in the Custom 
       Software which result from modifications to the Custom Software or 
       any part of it unless those modifications were made by the 
       Contractor or by someone authorized by the Contractor to perform 
       those modifications.


<strong>Part III - Ownership and Risk</strong>

<strong>4002   13     (2008-05-12)  Ownership of Media</strong><strong></strong>

1.     For the purposes of this section, the term "media" does not include 
       the information stored on the media.

2.     All media containing the Custom Software or any part of it, as well 
       as any specification, design, prototype or any other information 
       provided as part of the Work, becomes the property of Canada upon 
       either delivery to Canada of the Work or upon any payment being made 
       to the Contractor for or on account of the media or the information 
       stored on it, whichever comes first.  It is agreed however that the 
       transfer of ownership of the media to Canada does not constitute 
       acceptance by Canada of the media or of the information stored on it 
       and it does not relieve the Contractor of its obligation to perform 
       the Work in accordance with the requirements of the Contract.

3.     The intellectual property rights in the information stored on the 
       media become the property of either Canada or the Contractor, as 
       indicated in the intellectual property provisions of the Contract.

<strong>4002   14     (2008-05-12)  Risk of Loss</strong>

1.     Risk of loss of or damage to the media or to the information stored 
       on it pass to Canada upon delivery of the media to Canada.  However, 
       if the Contractor has retained a copy of the information that was 
       stored on the media, the Contractor must, upon request by Canada, 
       replace the lost or damaged media and information at no additional 
       charge to Canada except for costs reasonably and properly incurred 
       in the carrying out of such replacement.

2.     Despite subsection 1, the Contractor will be liable for loss of or 
       damage to the media and the information stored on it that is caused 
       by the Contractor or any of its subcontractors after delivery.

<strong>4002   15     (2008-05-12)  Ownership of Developed Custom Software</strong>

1.     For the purposes of this section, "Developed Custom Software" 
       includes object code, source code, documentation, data bases, 
       specifications, designs, prototypes and other related information 
       conceived, developed or produced as part of the Work performed under 
       the Contract.

2.     The Developed Custom Software belongs either to Canada or to the 
       Contractor, whichever is indicated in the intellectual property 
       provisions of the Contract.  If the Developed Software belongs to 
       the Contractor, the Contractor grants to Canada the license with 
       respect to the Developed Software set out or referred to in those 
       provisions.


</pre>