<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Use the following clause in conjunction with general conditions in Information 
Management or Information Technology contracts using Commodity Groupings.  It 
protects Canada by providing that the Contractor will pay the cost of 
infringement claims against Canada that are related to the software or other 
work that has been supplied by the Contractor under the contract.  It also 
provides Canada options like termination and refund where other settlement 
options are not reasonably available and notifies the Contractor of its 
obligations and options in respect of defence.

Contracting officers need to fill in the blank with the following information:

(a)	When used in conjunction with general conditions 9601, insert in the blank: 
"23, Royalties and Infringement, of general conditions 9601";

(b)	When used in conjunction with general conditions 9676, insert in the blank: 
"20, Royalties and Infringement, of general conditions 9676";

(c)	When used in conjunction with general conditions 9624, insert in the blank: 
"21, Royalties and Infringement, of general conditions 9624";

(d)	When used in conjunction with general conditions 2010 or 2029, delete entire 
sentence: "Section ______, is hereby amended by replacing the section in its 
entirety by the following:".
</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>Section __________, is hereby amended by replacing the section in its 
entirety by the following:

       "<strong>Intellectual Property Right Infringement</strong>

       1.     If a third party claims that equipment or software that the 
              Contractor provides under the Contract infringes any 
              intellectual property right, the Contractor, if requested to 
              do so by Canada, will defend Canada against the claim at the 
              Contractor's expense.  In this regard, the Contractor will 
              pay all costs, damages and legal fees that a court finally 
              awards, provided that Canada:

              (a)    promptly notifies the Contractor in writing of the 
                     claim; and

              (b)    co-operates with the Contractor in, and allows the 
                     Contractor full participation in, the defence and 
                     related settlement negotiations; and

              (c)    obtains the Contractor's prior approval to any 
                     agreement resulting from settlement negotiations held 
                     with the third party.

              The Contractor shall participate in any claims, action or 
              proceeding arising under subsection 1 and no such claim, 
              action or proceeding shall be settled without the prior 
              written approval of the Contractor and Canada.

       2.     If such a claim is made or appears likely to be made, Canada 
              agrees to permit the Contractor to enable Canada at the 
              Contractor's expense, to continue to use the equipment or 
              software or to modify or replace it with equipment or 
              software which has published specifications equal or superior 
              to the equipment or software being replaced.  If the 
              Contractor determines that none of these alternatives is 
              reasonably available, Canada may elect, at the Contractor's 
              expense, to independently secure the right to continue to use 
              the equipment or software, or Canada may require the 
              Contractor to accept the return of the equipment or software 
              and to refund all monies paid to the Contractor under the 
              Contract for the equipment and software, as well as all 
              amounts paid for services and license and development fees.

       3.     The provisions of subsections 1 and 2 do not apply in 
              situations where the Contractor was instructed by Canada to 
              purchase a specific item of equipment or software from a 
              specific source on behalf of Canada.  In this case, the 
              Contractor shall ensure that its subcontract for the 
              equipment or software states that: 

                     "If a third party claims that equipment or software 
                     that the subcontractor supplies under the Contract 
                     infringes any intellectual property right, the 
                     subcontractor, if requested to do so by either the 
                     Contractor or Canada, will defend the Contractor and 
                     Canada against that claim at the subcontractor's 
                     expense and will pay all costs, damages and legal fees 
                     that a court finally awards."
              In the event that the Contractor is unable to incorporate 
              this into its subcontract, then it shall advise Canada of the 
              situation and not proceed with the subcontract without 
              receiving written notice from Canada that the level of 
              intellectual property right infringement protection is 
              acceptable.

       4.     Without prejudice to Canada's right to terminate the Contract 
              for default prior to completion of the Work, the above 
              represents the Contractor's entire obligation to Canada 
              regarding any claim of infringement.

       5.     The Contractor has no obligation regarding any claim based on 
              any of the following: 

              (a)    Canada's unauthorized modification of the equipment or 
                     software, or Canada's unauthorized use of the 
                     equipment or software in other than its published 
                     specified operating environment;

              (b)    the combination, operation or use of the equipment or 
                     software with any product, data or apparatus that the 
                     Contractor did not provide under the Contract, or 
                     which combination, operation or use the Contractor did 
                     not authorize or approve in advance, if infringement 
                     would not have occurred but for such combination, 
                     operation or use."

</pre>