<pre>GI 1   Definitions
GI 2   Overview of Selection Procedure
GI 3   Procurement Business Number
GI 4   Responsive Proposals
GI 5   Completion of Submission
GI 6   Proposal Price
GI 7   Enquiries During the Solicitation Period
GI 8   Limitation of Submissions
GI 9   Licensing Requirements
GI 10  Eligibility Requirements
GI 11  Federal Contractors Program for Employment Equity
GI 12  Insurance Requirements
GI 13  Industrial and Facility Security Requirements
GI 14  Composition of Consultant Team
GI 15  Submission of Proposal
GI 16  Late Submissions
GI 17  Revision of Proposal
GI 18  Acceptance of Proposal 
GI 19  Identity or Legal Capacity of the Proponent
GI 20  Debriefing
GI 21  Financial Statements
GI 22  Performance Evaluation


<strong>GI 1   (30/05/03)    Definitions</strong>

1.     In this Request for Proposal (RFP), the following words or phrases 
       have the corresponding meaning.

       Consultant Team:  The team of consultants, specialists and other 
       firms, including the Proponent, proposed by the Proponent to perform 
       the services required.

       Key Personnel:  Staff of the Proponent, consultants and specialists 
       proposed to be assigned to this project.

       Phase One Rating:  A rating assigned to a proposal in the first 
       phase of the selection procedure, the rating being based on the 
       qualifications and experience of the Consultant Team.  The rating is 
       subsequently used to establish a Phase One Score for inclusion as a 
       percentage of the total score to be established following the 
       evaluation and rating of proposals submitted in Phase Two.

       Phase Two Technical Rating:  A rating assigned to the technical 
       component of a proposal in the second phase of the selection 
       procedure and subsequently used to establish a Technical Score for 
       inclusion as a percentage of the total score to be established 
       following the evaluation and rating of proposals submitted in Phase 
       Two.

       Price Rating:  A rating assigned to the price proposal component of 
       a proposal in the second phase of the selection procedure and 
       subsequently used to establish a Price Score for inclusion as a 
       percentage of the total score to be established following the 
       evaluation and rating of proposals submitted in Phase Two.

       Proponent:  The prime consultant entity which submits a proposal.

       PWGSC Evaluation Board:  The board established to evaluate and rate 
       proposals.  Board members represent a sufficiently broad 
       cross-section of professional qualifications and experience to 
       properly assess all aspects of the proposals.


<strong>GI 2   (30/05/03)    Overview of Selection Procedure</strong> 
2.1    Phase One Proposal

1.     In response to the RFP, interested Proponents submit a Phase One 
       proposal in which they:

       (a)    indicate whether the proposal is submitted by an individual 
              firm or by a joint venture;

       (b)    if the proposal is submitted by a joint venture, describe the 
              proposed legal and working relationships of the joint venture 
              and the benefits to be gained by the formation of the joint 
              venture;

       (c)    identify the prime consultants and key sub consultants and 
              specialists proposed for inclusion in the Consultant Team, 
              and the proposed organizational structure of the Team;

       (d)    describe the extent to which proposed members of the 
              Consultant Team have successfully performed services for 
              projects comparable to the project which is the subject of 
              the proposal;

       (e)    identify the professional accreditation, experience, 
              expertise and competence of the proposed Consultant Team and 
              the Key Personnel proposed to be assigned to perform the 
              required services.

       (f)    comply with all other requirements set out in the RFP.

2.2    Phase One Proposal Evaluation and Rating

1.     Each responsive proposal received is reviewed, evaluated and rated 
       by a Public Works and Government Services Canada (PWGSC) Evaluation 
       Board in accordance with the evaluation criteria, components and 
       weight factors set out in the RFP.  Upon completion of the 
       evaluation, an initial rating (Phase One Rating) is assigned to the 
       proposal.  Phase One Ratings are recorded for subsequent 
       incorporation in the final proposal evaluation and rating.

2.     Each Proponent submitting a responsive Phase One proposal is 
       notified in writing of its Phase One Rating and, in addition, is 
       provided with the following:

       (a)    an alphabetic list (normally five names) of Proponents with 
              the highest Phase One Ratings;

       (b)    a list of all Phase One Ratings attained (ratings are not 
              linked to Proponents);

       (c)    a date, time, and location for a Phase Two briefing meeting, 
              if applicable;

       (d)    the date and time for receipt of Phase Two proposals, and any 
              supplementary instructions, terms, conditions or addenda 
              which may be applicable to Phase Two proposal preparation and 
              submission.

3.     Proponents that submitted non-responsive Phase One proposals are 
       notified accordingly.

2.3    Phase Two Proposal

1.     Phase Two proposals are prepared and submitted after Proponents have 
       been advised of the results of evaluation of Phase One proposals.  
       All Proponents submitting responsive proposals in Phase One, 
       regardless of their Phase One Ratings, are eligible to prepare and 
       submit a Phase Two proposal.  The decision to continue participating 
       in the selection procedure in Phase Two is a decision to be made by 
       each eligible Proponent.

2.     In Phase Two, a Proponent may not substitute or delete any member of 
       the Consultant Team identified in the Phase One proposal.

3.     Phase Two proposals are submitted following a "two-envelope" 
       procedure, in which Proponents submit the "technical" component of 
       their proposal in one envelope and the proposed price of the 
       services (price proposal) in a second envelope.

4.     The information that Proponents are required to provide is set out 
       in detail throughout the RFP.

2.4    Phase Two Proposal Evaluation and Final Rating

1.     Technical components of Phase Two proposals are reviewed, evaluated 
       and rated by a PWGSC Evaluation Board in accordance with the 
       criteria, components and weight factors set out in the RFP.  Upon 
       completion of the evaluation, Phase Two Technical Ratings are 
       established.

2.     Phase One Rating and Phase Two Technical Rating are combined to 
       establish a Combined Technical Score.  Proposals achieving the 
       minimum Combined Technical Score specified in the Submission 
       Requirements and Evaluation section of the RFP are further 
       considered.

3.     The price envelopes of all responsive proposals are opened upon 
       completion of the technical evaluation.  An average price is 
       determined by adding all the price proposals together and dividing 
       the total by the number of price proposals opened.

4.     All price proposals which are greater than twenty-five percent (25%) 
       above the average price will cause their respective complete 
       proposals to be set aside and receive no further consideration.

5.     The remaining price proposals are rated as follows:

       (a)    The lowest price proposal receives a Price Rating of 100.

       (b)    The second, third, fourth and fifth lowest prices receive 
              Price Ratings of 80, 60, 40, and 20 respectively.  All other 
              price proposals receive a Price Rating of 0.

       (c)    On the rare occasion where two (or more) price proposals are 
              identical, these price proposals receive the same rating and 
              the corresponding number of following ratings are skipped.

       (d)    The Price Rating is multiplied by a predetermined percentage 
              factor to establish a Price Score.

6.     A price proposal in excess of any maximum funding limit, when this 
       limit has been set in the Supplementary Instructions to Proponents, 
       will result in disqualification of the complete proposal.

2.5    Total Score

1.     The total overall score (Total Score) assigned to each Proponent's 
       complete proposal is calculated as the aggregate of:

       (a)    the Phase One Score (Phase One proposal on qualifications and 
              experience), and

       (b)    the Phase Two Technical Score (first envelope of Phase Two 
              proposal), and
 
       (c)    the Price Score (second envelope of Phase Two proposal).

2.     The Proponent receiving the highest Total Score is the first entity 
       that the PWGSC Evaluation Board will recommend be approached in 
       order to finalize details of an agreement for the provision of the 
       required services.

2.6    Notification

PWGSC normally expects to advise in writing unsuccessful Proponents within 
one week after PWGSC has entered into a contractual arrangement with the 
successful Proponent.


<strong>GI 3   (30/05/03)    Procurement Business Number</strong>

1.     For procurement purposes, the Government of Canada uses a unique 
       Procurement Business Number (PBN) to identify a company and its 
       branches, divisions, or offices, where appropriate.  The PBN is 
       created using the entity's Canada Customs and Revenue Agency 
       Business Number. 

2.     All Canadian companies are required to have a PBN prior to contract 
       award in order to receive a PWGSC contract.  In exceptional 
       circumstances, PWGSC may decide to award, at its own discretion, a 
       contract to a company without a PBN.  Non-Canadian companies are 
       strongly encouraged to obtain a PBN.

3.     Companies may register for a PBN in the Supplier Registration 
       Information (SRI) system service on line at the Contracts Canada 
       Website at: <span class="wsStyleUnderline"><a href="http://contractscanada.gc.ca" rel="external">http://contractscanada.gc.ca</a></span>.  In order for companies to 
       be sourced by government buyers, they must complete the registration 
       process and activate their account in the SRI system.

4.     For non-Internet registration, contact the Contracts Canada InfoLine 
       at 1-800-811-1148 or (819) 956-3440, in the National Capital Area, 
       to obtain the telephone number of the nearest Supplier Registration 
       Agent.


<strong>GI 4   (30/05/03)    Responsive Proposals</strong>

To be considered responsive, a proposal must meet all of the mandatory 
requirements set out in the RFP.  No further consideration in the selection 
procedure will be given to a Proponent submitting a non-responsive proposal.


<strong>GI 5   (30/05/03)    Completion of Submission</strong>

The Proponent shall base the proposal on the applicable proposal documents 
listed in the Supplementary Instructions to Proponents.  It is the 
responsibility of the Proponent to obtain clarification of any terms, 
conditions or technical requirements contained in the RFP. 


<strong>GI 6   (30/05/03)    Proposal Price </strong>

1.     Unless specified otherwise elsewhere in the proposal documents:

       (a)    the price proposal shall be in Canadian currency, and

       (b)    the price proposal shall not include any amount for the Goods 
              and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales Tax as may be 
              applicable, and

       (c)    exchange rate fluctuation protection is not offered, and
 
       (d)    any request for exchange rate fluctuation protection will not 
              be considered, and will render the proposal non-responsive.


<strong>GI 7   (30/05/03)    Enquiries During the Solicitation Period</strong>

1.     Any questions or requests for clarification during the solicitation 
       period must be submitted in writing by the prime contact of a 
       Proponent to the person identified on the front page of the RFP.  
       Responses will be sent by PWGSC to the prime contact of the 
       Proponent, who will be responsible for internal distribution as 
       required within the Proponent's Consultant Team.

2.     To ensure equality of information provided to Proponents, answers to 
       significant enquiries will be forwarded simultaneously to each 
       Proponent.

3.     Enquiries are to be directed ONLY to the person referred to in 
       subsection 1 above.  Non-compliance with this condition during the 
       solicitation period may, for that reason alone, result in the 
       disqualification of the proposal.


<strong>GI 8   (30/05/03)    Limitation of Submissions</strong>

1.     While there is no requirement for firms to participate in this 
       procurement in joint venture, they may elect to do so if they see 
       fit.  However, only one submission per proponent will be accepted, 
       whether it is submitted by a firm as an individual Proponent or by 
       that firm as part of a joint venture Proponent.  If more than one 
       submission is received from a firm acting either individually or in 
       joint venture, all such submissions shall be rejected and no further 
       consideration shall be given to the firm or to any proposed joint 
       venture of which the firm forms part.

2.     A joint venture is defined as an association of two or more parties 
       which combine their money, property, knowledge, skills, time or 
       other resources in a joint business enterprise agreeing to share the 
       profits and the losses and each having some degree of control over 
       the enterprise.

3.     An arrangement whereby Canada contracts directly with a prime 
       consultant who may retain sub-consultants or specialist consultants 
       to perform portions of the services is not a joint venture 
       arrangement.  A sub-consultant or specialist consultant firm may, 
       therefore, be proposed as part of the Consultant Team by more than 
       one Proponent.

4.     Notwithstanding subsection 3 above, in order to avoid any conflict 
       of interest, or any perception of conflict of interest, no firm 
       acting as an individual Proponent or as part of a joint venture 
       Proponent, shall be proposed as a member of another Proponent's 
       Consultant Team, either as a sub-consultant or specialist consultant 
       or as part of another joint venture Proponent.  Failure to comply 
       with this limitation will result in all submissions so involved 
       being rejected.

5.     The Phase Two portion of the proposal must be made in the same name 
       as the entity named as the Proponent in the Phase One portion.  
       Proponents must utilize, in the preparation of their Phase Two 
       proposal, the same Consultant Team, firms and individuals named in 
       the Phase One proposal.

6.     Any joint venture entered into for the provision of professional 
       services or other services must be in full compliance with the 
       requirements of any provincial or territorial law pertaining thereto 
       in the Province or Territory in which the project is located.


<strong>GI 9   (30/05/03)    Licensing Requirements</strong>
 
1.     Consultant Team members and Key Personnel shall be, or be eligible 
       to be licensed, certified or otherwise authorized to provide the 
       necessary professional services to the full extent that may be 
       required by provincial or territorial law in the Province or 
       Territory in which the project is located.

2.     By virtue of submission of a Phase One proposal, the Proponent 
       certifies that the Proponent is satisfied that the proposed 
       Consultant Team and Key Personnel are in compliance with the 
       requirements of subsection 1  The Proponent acknowledges that PWGSC 
       reserves the right to verify any information in this regard and that 
       false or erroneous certification may result in the proposal being 
       declared non-responsive.

3.     Should a verification by PWGSC disclose that the certification 
       referred to in subsection 2 is false or in error, PWGSC shall have 
       the right to reject any Phase Two proposal arising from the Phase 
       One proposal.


<strong>GI 10  (30/05/03)    Eligibility Requirements</strong>

1.     Proponents are advised that a Proponent may be deemed to be 
       ineligible for selection at any time if:

       (a)    any firm or individual included in the Consultant Team has 
              been convicted under section 121 ("Frauds on the government" 
              &amp; "Contractor subscribing to election fund"), 124 ("Selling 
              or purchasing office"), or 418 ("Selling defective stores to 
              Her Majesty") of the Criminal Code;

       (b)    the Proponent has been declared ineligible for selection, 
              following unsatisfactory performance in a previous project as 
              determined in accordance with the department's performance 
              review procedures;

       (c)    any firm or individual included in the Consultant Team has 
              been declared ineligible, for selection for work with the 
              department in accordance with the performance review 
              procedure referred to in paragraph 1.(b), which ineligibility 
              would render the individual ineligible for selection for the 
              work, or the portion of the work the individual is to perform, 
              under any contractual arrangement resulting from submission 
              of the proposal;

       (d)    with respect to current or prior transactions with the 
              Government of Canada,

              (i)    the Proponent is bankrupt or where, for whatever 
                     reason, its activities are rendered inoperable for an 
                     extended period;

              (ii)   evidence, satisfactory to Canada, of fraud, bribery, 
                     fraudulent misrepresentation or failure to comply with 
                     any law protecting individuals against any manner of 
                     discrimination, has been received with respect to any 
                     firm or individual included in the Consultant Team;

              (iii)  Canada has previously exercised or intends to exercise 
                     the contractual remedy of taking the services out of 
                     the consultant's hands with respect to any commission 
                     or contract with any firm or individual included in 
                     the Consultant Team;

              (iv)   Canada determines that the performance of the 
                     Proponent on other contracts or commissions, including 
                     the quality of the services provided and the quality 
                     and timeliness of the delivery of the project, is 
                     sufficiently poor to jeopardize the successful 
                     completion of the requirement which is the subject of 
                     the Initial Proposal. 
2.     Where Canada intends to declare a firm ineligible pursuant to the 
       provisions contained in subsection 1 above, other than provision 1.(
       b), the Minister will so inform the firm and provide the firm ten 
       (10) days within which to make representations, prior to making a 
       final decision regarding the ineligibility of the firm.


<strong>GI 11  (30/05/03)    Federal Contractors Program for Employment Equity</strong>

1.     The Federal Contractors Program for Employment Equity (FCP EE) 
       requires that Canadian  organizations bidding for federal government 
       contracts, $200,000 and over, make a formal commitment to implement 
       employment equity, as a pre-condition to the validation of their 
       proposal.  If the proponent is subject to the Program, evidence of 
       its commitment must be provided prior to the award of any contract.

2.     When submitting a proposal, Proponents should complete and return 
       with the proposal the applicable certification for the "Federal 
       Contractors Program for Employment Equity" included in the 
       Declaration Form attached hereto.

3.     In all cases, the proponent is required to produce evidence of 
       supporting information on demand, if such evidence is not provided 
       with its proposal.  Under no circumstance will a contract be awarded 
       to an organization that does not comply with the requirements of the 
       FCP EE, unless it is exempt from the Program.

       NOTE:

       1.     The FCP EE applies to Canadian-based proponents only.
       2.     The Certificate of Commitment, criteria an other information 
              about the FCP EE, are available in the <em>Standard Acquisition 
              Clauses and Conditions</em> Manual, Section 2 (PWGSC Website:  <span class="wsStyleUnderline">
              <a href="http://sacc.pwgsc.gc.ca/sacc/index-e.jsp" rel="external">http://sacc.pwgsc.gc.ca/sacc/index-e.jsp</a></span>.


<strong>GI 12  (30/05/03)    Insurance Requirements</strong>

1.     The successful Proponent shall be required to obtain and maintain 
       Professional Liability and Commercial General Liability insurance 
       coverage in accordance with the requirements set out elsewhere in 
       the proposal documents.

2.     No insurance requirement stipulated in the proposal documents should 
       be construed as limiting any insurance required by federal, 
       provincial or municipal law or as may be required under GC 9.1.  
       Neither should it limit any coverage which the successful Proponent 
       and other members of the Consultant Team may consider to be 
       necessary for their own protection or to fulfill their obligations.

3.     By virtue of submission of a proposal, the Proponent certifies that 
       the Proponent and the other members of the Consultant Team as may be 
       applicable are capable of obtaining, and will obtain and maintain 
       liability insurance in accordance with the requirements set out in 
       the proposal documents.


<strong>GI 13  (30/05/03)    Industrial and Facility Security Requirements</strong>

1.     Proponents shall take note of, and comply with, any industrial 
       security or facility security requirement which may be stipulated as 
       a requirement in the proposal and Agreement documents.  If 
       industrial security or facility security is required, employees and 
       staff of the Proponent and other members of the Consultant Team 
       involved in the project implementation must either be in possession 
       of, or agree to be investigated for, a valid, appropriate level of 
       personnel security screening that may be required under the 
       provisions of the RFP.

2.     If security screening is required, each person involved in the 
       project implementation must hold such security screening prior to 
       the commencement of any work.

3.     In all contractual arrangements with persons who are to be employed 
       in the performance of the services, the successful Proponent shall 
       make provision for the performance of any obligation that may be 
       imposed upon the Proponent under the provisions of this clause.


<strong>GI 14  (30/05/03)    Composition of Consultant Team</strong>

By submitting a proposal, the Proponent represents and warrants that the 
entities and persons proposed in the proposal to perform the required 
services will be the entities and persons that will perform the services in 
the fulfillment of the project under any contractual arrangement arising 
from submission of the proposal.  If the Proponent has proposed any person 
in fulfillment of the project who is not an employee of the Proponent, the 
Proponent warrants that it has written permission from such person (or the 
employer of such person) to propose the services of such person in relation 
to the services to be performed.


<strong>GI 15  (30/05/03)    Submission of Proposal</strong>

1.     It is the Proponent's responsibility to:

       (a)    submit a signed Phase One proposal, duly completed, IN THE 
              FORMAT REQUESTED, on or before the closing date and time set 
              for Phase One proposals;

       (b)    submit, at the Proponent's discretion, a signed Phase Two 
              proposal, duly completed, IN THE FORMAT REQUESTED, on or 
              before the closing date and time set for Phase Two proposals;

       (c)    direct proposals ONLY to the designated office identified on 
              the front page of the RFP;

       (d)    the proposal shall be signed in accordance with the following 
              requirements:

              (i)    Corporation
                     The signatures of the authorized signatories shall be 
                     affixed and their names and titles typed or printed.

              (ii)   Partnership
                     The signatures of the partners shall be affixed and 
                     their names typed or printed.  If not all of the 
                     partners sign or if the signatory is not a partner 
                     then a certified true copy of the agreement signed by 
                     all partners authorizing such person or persons to 
                     execute the document on their behalf shall accompany 
                     the proposal.

              (iii)  Sole Proprietorship
                     The signature of the sole proprietor shall be affixed 
                     and the name typed or printed.  In the event that the 
                     signatory is not the sole proprietor then a certified 
                     true copy of the agreement signed by the sole 
                     proprietor authorizing such person or persons to 
                     execute the document shall accompany the proposal.

              (iv)   Joint Venture 
                     The signatures of the authorized signatories of each 
                     member of the joint venture shall be affixed and their 
                     names and titles typed or printed.  Each of the 
                     participating signatories shall sign the document in 
                     the manner applicable to their particular business 
                     arrangement which is more particularly described in (i) 
                     to (iii) above.

       (e)    ensure that the following information is clearly visible:

              (i)    Proponent's name and address, 
              (ii)   Name of Proponent's prime contact person,
              (iii)  Solicitation Number and Description, 
              (iv)   Closing date and time for receipt of proposals.

       (f)    provide a comprehensive and sufficiently detailed proposal 
              for each phase that will permit a complete evaluation in 
              accordance with the criteria set out in this RFP.

2.     The technical and price components of the Phase Two proposal must be 
       submitted in separate, easily identified envelopes in accordance 
       with the instructions contained in the proposal documents.  Both 
       envelopes shall be submitted as one package which shall clearly and 
       conspicuously display and indicate on the outside of the package the 
       information identified in paragraph 1.(e) above.

3.     Timely and correct delivery of proposals to the office designated 
       for receipt of proposals is the sole responsibility of the Proponent.  
       PWGSC will not assume or have transferred to it those 
       responsibilities. All risks and consequences of incorrect delivery 
       of proposals are the responsibility of the Proponent.

4.     Proposals and supporting information may be submitted in either 
       English or French.


<strong>GI 16  (30/05/03)    Late Submissions</strong>

It is PWGSC policy to return, unopened, submissions delivered after the 
stipulated closing date and time.


<strong>GI 17  (30/05/03)    Revision of Proposal</strong>

A proposal submitted in accordance with these requirements may be amended 
by letter or facsimile provided the revision is received at the office 
designated for the receipt of proposals, on or before the date and time set 
for the receipt of proposals.  The revision must be on the Proponent's 
letterhead or bear a signature that identifies the Proponent, and must 
clearly identify the change(s) to be applied to the original proposal.  The 
revision must also include the information identified in GI 15.1.(e).


<strong>GI 18  (30/05/03)    Acceptance of Proposal</strong>

1.     Canada may accept any proposal, or may reject any or all proposals.

2.     In the case of error in the extension or addition of unit prices, 
       the unit price will govern.

3.     While Canada may enter into an agreement or contractual arrangement 
       without prior negotiation, Canada reserves the right to negotiate 
       with Proponents on any procurement.

 
<strong>GI 19  (30/05/03)    Identity or Legal Capacity of the Proponent</strong>

In order to establish the legal capacity under which a Proponent proposes 
to enter into a contractual arrangement, any Proponent who carries on 
business in other than its own personal name shall, if requested, provide 
proof of the legal capacity under which it carries on business prior to the 
contractual arrangement being entered into.  Such proof may be in the form 
of a copy of the articles of incorporation or a copy of the registration of 
the business name of a sole proprietor, of a trade name, of a partnership, 
etc.


<strong>GI 20  (30/05/03)    Debriefing</strong>

A debriefing will be provided, on request, only following entry by PWGSC 
into a contractual arrangement with the successful Proponent.  Should a 
Proponent desire a debriefing, the Proponent should contact the person 
identified on the front page of the RFP.  The debriefing will include an 
outline of the reasons the submission was not successful, making reference 
to the evaluation criteria.  The confidentiality of information relating to 
other submissions will be protected.


<strong>GI 21  (30/05/03)    Financial Statements</strong>

1.     In order to confirm a Proponent's financial capability to perform 
       the subject requirement, the Contracting Authority reserves the 
       right to have access, during the proposal evaluation phase, to 
       current proponent financial information.  If requested, the 
       financial information to be provided shall include, but not be 
       limited to, the Proponent's most recent audited financial statements 
       or financial statements certified by the Proponent's chief financial 
       officer.

2.     Should the proponent provide the requested information to Canada in 
       confidence while indicating that the disclosed information is 
       confidential, then Canada will treat the information in a 
       confidential manner as provided in the <em>Access to Information Act.</em>

3.     In the event that a proposal is found to be non-compliant on the 
       basis that the proponent is considered NOT to be financially capable 
       of performing the subject requirement, official notification shall 
       be provided to the proponent.


<strong>GI 22  (30/05/03)    Performance Evaluation</strong>

Proponents shall take note that the performance of the Consultant during 
and upon completion of the services shall be evaluated by Canada.  The 
evaluation include all or some of the following criteria:  Design, Quality 
of Results, Management, Time and Cost.  Should the Consultant's performance 
be considered unsatisfactory, the Consultant may be declared ineligible for 
future Real Property contracts.  An electronic version of the form 
PWGSC-TPSGC 2913-1, SELECT - Consultant Performance Evaluation Report, used 
to record the performance is available on the PWGSC Website:  <span class="wsStyleUnderline"><a href="http://www.pwgsc.gc.ca" rel="external">http://www.pwgsc.gc.ca</a>
/sos/corporate/forms-e.html</span>.

</pre>