<pre><strong>Public Works and Government Services</strong><strong></strong>

GC2.1  Departmental Representative's Authority
GC2.2  Interpretation of Contract
GC2.3  Notices
GC2.4  Site Meetings
GC2.5  Review and Inspection of Work
GC2.6  Superintendent
GC2.7  Non-discrimination in Hiring and Employment of Labour
GC2.8  Accounts and Audits


<strong>GC2.1  (2008-05-12)  Departmental Representative's Authority</strong><strong></strong>

1)     Canada shall designate a Departmental Representative and shall 
       notify the Contractor of the name, address and telephone number of 
       the Departmental Representative.

2)     The Departmental Representative shall perform Canada's duties and 
       functions under the contract.

3)     The Departmental Representative shall be authorized to issue notices, 
       instructions and directions to the Contractor and to accept on 
       behalf of Canada any notice, order or other communication from the 
       contractor relating to the Work.

4)     The Departmental Representative shall, within a reasonable time, 
       review and respond to submissions made by the Contractor in 
       accordance with the requirements of the Contract.

<strong>GC2.2  (2008-05-12)  Interpretation of Contract</strong><strong></strong>

1)     If, at any time before Canada has issued a Certificate of Completion, 
       any question arises between the parties about whether anything has 
       been done as required by the Contract or about what the Contractor 
       is required by the Contract to do, and in particular but without 
       limiting the generality of the foregoing, about

       (a)    the meaning of anything in the Plans and Specifications;

       (b)    the meaning to be given to the Plans and Specifications in 
              case of any error therein, omission therefrom, or obscurity 
              or discrepancy in their wording or intention;

       (c)    whether or not the quality or quantity of any Material or 
              workmanship supplied or proposed to be supplied by the 
              Contractor meets the requirements of the Contract;

       (d)    whether or not the labour, Plant or Material performed, used 
              and supplied by the Contractor for performing the Work and 
              carrying out the Contract are adequate to ensure that the 
              Work shall be performed in accordance with the Contract and 
              that the Contract shall be carried out in accordance with its 
              terms;

       (e)    what quantity of any of the Work has been completed by the 
              Contractor; or

       (f)    the timing and scheduling of the various phases of the 
              performance of the Work as specified in the Contract;

       the question shall be decided, subject to the provisions of GC8, "
       Dispute Resolution", by Canada.

2)     The Contractor shall perform the Work in accordance with any 
       decisions of Canada that are made under paragraph 1) of GC2.2 and in 
       accordance with any consequential directions given by Canada.

3)     If the Contractor fails to comply with any instruction or direction 
       issued by Canada pursuant to the Contract, Canada may employ such 
       methods as Canada deems advisable to do what the Contractor failed 
       to do, and the Contractor shall, on demand, pay Canada an amount 
       that is equal to the aggregate of all costs, expenses and damages 
       incurred or sustained by Canada by reason of the Contractor's 
       failure to comply with such instruction or direction, including the 
       cost of any methods employed by Canada in doing what the Contractor 
       failed to do.

<strong>GC2.3  (2008-05-12)  Notices</strong><strong></strong>

1)     Subject to paragraph 3) of GC2.3, any notice, order or other 
       communication may be given in any manner, and if required to be in 
       writing, shall be addressed to the party to whom it is intended at 
       the address in the Contract or at the last address of which the 
       sender has received written notice in accordance with this section.

2)     Any notice, order or other communication given in writing in 
       accordance with paragraph 1 of GC2.3 shall be deemed to have been 
       received by either party

       (a)    if delivered personally, on the day that it was delivered;

       (b)    if forwarded by mail, on the earlier of the day it was 
              received or the sixth day after it was mailed; and

       (c)    if forwarded by facsimile or electronic mail, 24 hours after 
              it was transmitted.

3.     A notice given under GC7.1, "Taking the Work out of the Contractor's 
       Hands", GC7.2, "Suspension of Work" and GC7.3, "Termination of 
       Contract", shall be given in writing and, if delivered personally, 
       shall be delivered, if the Contractor is a sole proprietor, to the 
       Contractor or, if the Contractor is a partnership or corporation, to 
       an officer thereof.

<strong>GC2.4  (2008-05-12)  Site Meetings</strong><strong></strong>

1)     In consultation with Canada, the Contractor shall arrange site 
       meetings at regular intervals, with all involved parties who are to 
       attend, in order to ensure, among other things, the proper 
       co-ordination of the Work.

<strong>GC2.5  (2008-05-12)  Review and Inspection of Work</strong><strong></strong>

1)     Canada shall review the Work to determine if it is proceeding in 
       conformity with the Contract and to record the necessary data to 
       make an assessment of the value of Work completed.  Canada shall 
       measure and record the quantities of labour, Plant and Material 
       performed, used or supplied by the Contractor in performing the Work 
       or any part thereof that is subject to a Unit Price Arrangement and, 
       on request, shall inform the Contractor of those measurements, and 
       permit the Contractor to inspect any records pertaining thereto.

2)     Canada shall reject Work or Material which in Canada's opinion does 
       not conform to the requirements of the Contract, and shall require 
       inspection or testing of Work, whether or not such Work is 
       fabricated, installed, or completed.  If such Work is not in 
       accordance with the requirements of the Contract, the Contractor 
       shall correct the Work and shall pay Canada, on demand, all 
       reasonable costs and expenses that were incurred by Canada in having 
       the examination performed.

3)     The Contractor shall provide Canada with access to the Work and its 
       site at all times, and at all times shall provide sufficient, safe, 
       and proper facilities for the review and inspection of the Work by 
       persons authorized by Canada and any representatives of those 
       authorities having jurisdiction.  If parts of the Work are in 
       preparation at locations other than the site of the Work, Canada 
       shall be given access to such Work whenever it is in progress.

4)     The Contractor shall furnish Canada with such information respecting 
       the performance of the Contract as Canada may require, and render 
       every possible assistance to enable Canada to verify that the Work 
       is performed in accordance with the Contract, carry out any other 
       duties and exercise any powers in accordance with the Contract.

5)     If Work is designated for tests, inspections, or approvals in the 
       Contract or by Canada's instructions, or by laws or ordinances of 
       the place of the Work, the Contractor shall give Canada reasonable 
       notice of when such Work shall be ready for review and inspection.  
       The Contractor shall arrange for and shall give Canada reasonable 
       notice of the date and time of inspections, tests or approvals.

6)     If the Contractor covers, or permits to be covered, Work that has 
       been designated for tests, inspections or approvals before such 
       tests, inspections or approvals are made, completed or given, the 
       Contractor shall, if so directed by Canada, uncover such Work, have 
       the inspections, tests or approvals satisfactorily made, completed 
       or given and make good the covering of the Work at the Contractor's 
       expense.

<strong>GC2.6  (2008-05-12)  Superintendent</strong><strong></strong>

1)     Prior to commencing the Work, the Contractor shall designate a 
       Superintendent and shall notify Canada of the name, address and 
       telephone number of the Superintendent.  The Contractor shall keep 
       the Superintendent at the Work site during working hours until the 
       Work has reached completion.

2)     The Superintendent shall be in full charge of the operations of the 
       Contractor during the performance of the Work and shall be 
       authorized to accept on behalf of the Contractor any notice, order 
       or other communication given to the Superintendent or the Contractor 
       relating to the Work.

3)     Upon request of Canada, the Contractor shall remove any 
       Superintendent who, in the opinion of Canada, is incompetent or has 
       been guilty of improper conduct, and shall forthwith designate 
       another Superintendent who is acceptable to Canada.

4)     The Contractor shall not substitute a Superintendent without the 
       written consent of Canada.  If a Superintendent is substituted 
       without such consent, Canada shall be entitled to refuse to issue 
       any documentation or certification relating to progress payments, 
       Substantial Performance or Completion of the Work until the 
       Superintendent has returned to the Work site or another 
       Superintendent who is acceptable to Canada has been substituted.

<strong>GC2.7  (2008-05-12)  Non-discrimination in Hiring and Employment of Labour</strong><strong></strong>

1)     For the purposes of this clause, "persons" include the Contractor, 
       its subcontractors and suppliers at any tier and their respective 
       employees, agents, licensees or invitees and any other individual 
       involved in the performance of the Work or granted access to the 
       Work site.  A "person" includes any partnership, proprietorship, 
       firm, joint venture, consortium and corporation.

2)     Without restricting the provisions of paragraph 3) of GC2.6, "
       Superintendent", the Contractor shall not refuse to employ and shall 
       not discriminate in any manner against any person because

       (a)    of that person's race, national origin, colour, religion, age, 
              sex or marital status;

       (b)    of the race, national origin, colour, religion, age, sex, or 
              marital status of any person having any relationship or 
              association with that person; or

       (c)    a complaint has been made or information has been given by or 
              in respect of that person relating to an alleged failure by 
              the Contractor to comply with subparagraphs 2)(a) and 2)(b) 
              of GC2.7.

3)     Within two working days immediately following receipt of a written 
       complaint pursuant to paragraph 2) of GC2.7, the Contractor shall

       (a)    cause to have issued a written direction to the person or 
              persons named by the complainant to cease all actions that 
              form the basis of the complaint;

       (b)    forward a copy of the complaint to Canada by registered mail 
              or courier service; and

       (c)    when the Labour Conditions are applicable under the 
              circumstances of the complaint, forward a copy of the 
              complaint to HRSDC - Labour to the attention of the 
              appropriate Director as described in the Labour Conditions ("
              HRSDC - Labour" means the labour component of the federal 
              Department of Human Resources and Social Development).

4)     Within 24 hours immediately following receipt of a direction from 
       Canada to do so, the Contractor shall cause to have removed from the 
       site of the Work and from the performance of Work under the Contract, 
       any person or persons whom Canada believes to be in breach of the 
       provisions of paragraph 2) of GC2.7.

5)     No later than 30 days after receipt of the direction referred to in 
       paragraph 4) of GC2.7, the Contractor shall cause the necessary 
       action to be commenced to remedy the breach described in the 
       direction.

6)     If a direction is issued pursuant to paragraph 4) of GC2.7, Canada 
       may withhold from monies that are due and payable to the Contractor 
       or setoff pursuant to GC5.9, "Right of Setoff", whichever is 
       applicable, an amount representing the sum of the costs and payment 
       referred to in paragraph 8) of GC2.7.

7)     If the Contractor fails to proceed in accordance with paragraph 5) 
       of GC2.7, Canada shall take the necessary action to have the breach 
       remedied, and shall determine all supplementary costs incurred by 
       Canada as a result.

8)     Canada may make a payment directly to the complainant from monies 
       that are due and payable to the Contractor upon receipt from the 
       complainant of

       (a)    a written award issued pursuant to the federal <em>Commercial 
              Arbitration Act</em>, R.S. 1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.);

       (b)    a written award issued pursuant to the <em>Canadian Human Rights 
              Act</em>, R.S. 1985, c. H-6;

       (c)    a written award issued pursuant to provincial or territorial 
              human rights legislation; or

       (d)    a judgement issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.

9)     If Canada is of the opinion that the Contractor has breached any of 
       the provisions of this clause, Canada may take the Work out of the 
       Contractor's hands pursuant to GC7.1, "Taking the Work out of the 
       Contractor's Hands".

10)    Subject to paragraph 7) of GC3.6, "Subcontracting", the Contractor 
       shall ensure that the provisions of this clause are included in all 
       agreements and contracts entered into as a consequence of the Work.

<strong>GC2.8  (2008-05-12)  Accounts and Audits</strong><strong></strong>

1)     The Contractor shall, in addition to the requirements expressed in 
       paragraph 6) of GC3.4, "Execution of the Work", maintain full 
       records of the Contractor's estimated and actual cost of the Work 
       together with all tender calls, quotations, contracts, 
       correspondence, invoices, receipts and vouchers relating thereto, 
       and shall make them available on request to audit and inspection by 
       Canada and the Deputy Receiver General for Canada or by persons 
       designated to act on behalf of either or both of them.

2)     The Contractor shall allow any of the persons referred to in 
       paragraph 1) of GC2.8 to make copies of and take extracts from any 
       of the records and material, and shall furnish such persons or 
       entities with any information those persons or entities may require 
       from time to time in connection with such records and material.

3)     The Contractor shall maintain and keep the records intact until the 
       expiration of two years after the date that a Certificate of 
       Completion has been issued or until the expiration of such other 
       period of time as Canada may direct.

4)     The Contractor shall cause all subcontractors at any tier and all 
       other persons directly or indirectly controlled by or affiliated 
       with the Contractor and all persons directly or indirectly having 
       control of the Contractor to comply with the requirements of this 
       clause as if they were the Contractor.


</pre>