<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>9601-4 00     (2004-12-10)  Licensed Software</strong>


<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     License Grant
03     Personal Computer License
04     License Restricting Use to a Designated Computer
05     Site or Corporate License
06     Licensed Documentation
07     Copyright Notices
08     Media
09     Term of License
10     Acceptance Tests
11     Non-Disclosure Obligations
12     Right to License
13     Warranty
14     Availability of Source Code
15     Right to Modify
16     Risk of Loss
17     Destruction on Termination


<strong>9601-4 01     (2004-12-10)  Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires,

       "General Conditions" means general conditions 9601 or 9601-10, 
       whichever forms part of the Contract;

       "Canada", "Crown", "Her Majesty", "the Government" means Her Majesty 
       the Queen in right of Canada;

       "Licensed Documentation" means all of the manuals, handbooks, user 
       guides and other human-readable material to be furnished by the 
       Contractor to Canada under the Contract for use with the Licensed 
       Programs, whether that material is to be supplied in printed form or 
       on Media;

       "Licensed Programs" means all of the computer programs, in 
       object-code form, which are to be furnished by the Contractor to 
       Canada under the Contract, other than those computer programs, if 
       any, which are to be developed by the Contractor under the Contract 
       and which are covered by supplemental general conditions 9601-2;

       "Licensed Software" means the Licensed Programs and the Licensed 
       Documentation collectively;

       "Media" means the material on which the Licensed Programs are stored 
       for delivery to Canada, such as magnetic or other tapes, magnetic 
       disks, or optical disks;
 
       "User" means the minister responsible for the department or agency 
       for which the Work is carried out, or, in the event of a transfer 
       under subsection 2.2, the minister to whom the Licensed Software is 
       transferred; and "minister", for the purposes of this definition, 
       includes any employee, agent or contractor duly authorized to act on 
       behalf of the minister.

2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these supplemental general conditions shall have the meanings 
       assigned to them in the General Conditions.

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these supplemental general conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these supplemental general conditions shall prevail.

4      The sections of the General Conditions entitled "Title" and "
       Warranty" do not apply to the Licensed Software and the Media.  The 
       title and warranty provisions contained in these supplemental 
       general conditions apply in place of those sections.

5.     Subsections 23.5 to 23.8 inclusive of general conditions 9601, if 
       that set forms part of the Contract, shall only apply to royalties 
       which are payable in connection with the Licensed Software if the 
       Contract is a defence contract within the meaning of the <em>Defence 
       Production Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. D-1.

<strong>9601-4 02     (1992-12-01)  License Grant</strong>

1.     The Contractor hereby grants to Canada a non-exclusive license to 
       use and reproduce the Licensed Software in accordance with and 
       subject to the terms and conditions of the Contract.

2.     The User shall be the only entity authorized to use and reproduce 
       the Licensed Software on behalf of Canada.  If the department or 
       agency for which the User is responsible is reconfigured, absorbed 
       by another government department or agency, or is disbanded entirely, 
       the Minister may, by giving notice to the Contractor, designate 
       another minister as the "User" for the purposes of the Contract.

3.     Canada acknowledges that title to the Licensed Software shall remain 
       with the Contractor or its licensor.

<strong>9601-4 03     (1992-12-01)  Personal Computer License</strong>

1.     In this section, "PC Software" means Licensed Software that is 
       designed for use on a personal computer.

2.     Subsections 3 and 4 apply to any PC Software furnished under the 
       Contract except for PC Software that is subject to section 05.
 
3.     The User may use each licensed copy of PC Software only on a single 
       personal computer, the type of which is specified in the Contract or, 
       where the Contract is silent, in the Licensed Documentation related 
       to the PC Software.  The User may transfer each such copy from one 
       personal computer to another, without giving notice thereof to the 
       Contractor, provided that the copy is only used on one personal 
       computer at a time.

4.     The User may make copies of the PC Software in machine-readable or 
       printed form, for back-up purposes only, in support of the use of 
       each licensed copy on a single personal computer.

<strong>9601-4 04     (1995-03-31)  License Restricting Use to a Designated 
                                          Computer</strong>

1.     This section applies to Licensed Software that is designed for use 
       on computers other than a personal computer as described in section 
       03 but does not apply to Licensed Software that is subject to 
       section 05.

2.     Subject to the other provisions of this section, and except as 
       otherwise provided in the Contract, Canada shall only use the 
       Licensed Software with the computer system or systems on which the 
       Licensed Programs are originally installed (each such system is 
       hereinafter called the "Designated Computer System").

3.     If the Designated Computer System includes remote terminals, the 
       User shall be free to concurrently access and use the Licensed 
       Programs from such terminals, subject to the limitations, if any, of 
       the usage terms of the Contract.

4.     The User may temporarily transfer the Licensed Software to back-up 
       equipment if the Designated Computer System is inoperative, or if 
       Canada's facilities are inaccessible.  Should any transfer be 
       expected to exceed a cumulative total of sixty (60) calendar days 
       within any 90-day period, the Contractor shall be given notice of 
       the transfer by the Technical Authority.

5.     Canada, by notice from the Contracting Authority to the Contractor, 
       may, at any time, redesignate the Designated Computer System on 
       which the Licensed Software is used.

6.     If Canada wishes to transfer the Licensed Software to a new release 
       or upgrade of the Designated Computer System or of its operating 
       system, and if such transfer requires a different version of the 
       Licensed Software in order for the Licensed Software to continue to 
       meet the functional and performance criteria set out in the 
       Specifications, then the Contractor shall provide the appropriate 
       version, if available, to Canada on substantially the same terms and 
       conditions as set out in the Contract, and at a price which shall 
       not exceed the lowest price charged by the Contractor to anyone else 
       for that version, including its most favoured commercial customer.

7.     The User may make copies of the Licensed Software in 
       machine-readable or printed form, for back-up purposes only, in 
       support of the use of the Licensed Software on the Designated 
       Computer System.

<strong>9601-4 05     (1992-12-01)  Site or Corporate License</strong>

1.     This section applies to Licensed Software which the Contract 
       indicates is subject to a "site" or "corporate" license.

2.     Subject to subsection 3, the User may use the Licensed Software 
       referred to in subsection 1 on any and all computer systems owned, 
       leased or operated by Canada on the date of the Contract or at any 
       time thereafter at the site or sites designated in the Contract.

3.     The User shall only use the Licensed Programs on the type of 
       computer system specified in the Contract or, where the Contract is 
       silent, in the Licensed Documentation related to the Licensed 
       Programs.

4.     Except where there is an express restriction in the Contract on the 
       number of copies of the Licensed Software that can be made, Canada 
       shall have the right to reproduce the Licensed Software, without 
       restriction, for use by Canada on computer systems at the site or 
       sites designated in the Contract.

<strong>9601-4 06     (1992-12-01)  Licensed Documentation</strong>

1.     Except as provided in sections 03, 04 and 05, and except as 
       otherwise provided in the Contract, Canada shall not reproduce the 
       Licensed Documentation without the prior written consent of the 
       Contractor.

2.     The Contractor represents and warrants that the Licensed 
       Documentation shall contain enough detail to permit an experienced 
       user to install, test and use all features of the Licensed Programs.  
       If the source code for the Licensed Programs is to be furnished to 
       Canada under the Contract, the Contractor represents and warrants 
       that the code so furnished shall contain enough detail to permit a 
       programmer, experienced in the use of the programming language or 
       languages in which the source code is written, to modify the 
       Licensed Programs.

<strong>9601-4 07     (1992-12-01)  Copyright Notices</strong>

If the Licensed Software contains copyright or other proprietary notices, 
Canada shall reproduce those notices on all copies of the Licensed Software.
 
<strong>9601-4 08     (1992-12-01)  Media</strong>

1.     The Contractor represents and warrants that the Media shall be 
       compatible with the computer system on which the Licensed Programs 
       are to be installed.

2.     The Contractor further represents and warrants that the Media, as 
       supplied by the Contractor, shall be free from computer viruses.

3.     Title to the Media shall vest in Canada upon delivery to and 
       acceptance thereof by or on behalf of Canada.  "Media", for the 
       purposes of this subsection, does not include the Licensed Software 
       stored on the Media.

<strong>9601-4 09     (1992-12-01)  Term of License</strong>

1.     Unless otherwise indicated in the Contract, Canada's license with 
       respect to the Licensed Software shall be perpetual, subject only to 
       the termination provisions set out in the Contract.

2.     If Canada is in breach of Canada's license with respect to the 
       Licensed Software, and if that breach continues for a period of 
       thirty (30) days following receipt by the Contracting Authority of 
       written notice from the Contractor giving particulars of the breach, 
       the Contractor may terminate Canada's license  with respect to the 
       Licensed Software by giving the Contracting Authority written notice 
       to that effect.

<strong>9601-4 10     (1995-03-31)  Acceptance Tests</strong>

1.     After installation of the Licensed Programs in accordance with the 
       terms of the Contract, the Technical Authority shall perform the  
       acceptance tests set out or referred to in the Contract to determine 
       whether the Licensed Software and the Media conform to the 
       requirements of the Contract, including the Specifications.  If the 
       Contract does not provide for any such tests, the Parties may agree 
       upon the acceptance tests to be conducted, provided, however, that 
       if the Parties do not or are unable to agree, the Technical 
       Authority may conduct whatever acceptance tests it reasonably deems 
       necessary to verify conformity with the requirements of the Contract.  
       Unless otherwise specified in the Contract, the acceptance tests 
       shall be conducted at Canada's facilities.

2.     Except as otherwise provided in the Contract, the acceptance tests 
       referred to in subsection 1 shall be conducted over a period of 
       forty (40) days from the date of installation of the Licensed 
       Software at Canada's facilities.  If the Licensed Software and Media 
       pass those acceptance tests, the Technical Authority shall give 
       notice to the Contractor that the Licensed Software and Media are 
       accepted. 
3.     Notwithstanding anything else contained in this section, if Canada 
       is unable to commence or continue the acceptance tests in relation 
       to the Licensed Software because of an act in Canada's sovereign 
       capacity or the occurrence of an event of force majeure, the 
       acceptance tests may be temporarily suspended for a period of time 
       not to exceed sixty (60) days.  The time limits for testing referred 
       to in this section or elsewhere in the Contract shall in such cases 
       be extended by the number of calendar days of the suspension.  If 
       the delay exceeds sixty (60) days, the Parties shall thereafter use 
       reasonable efforts to negotiate a mutually acceptable amendment to 
       the Contract.

<strong>9601-4 11     (2004-12-10)  Non-Disclosure Obligations</strong>

1.     Canada acknowledges that the Licensed Software contains information 
       which the Contractor considers to be proprietary and confidential.  
       Subject to the<em> Access to Information Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. A-1, and 
       to Canada's rights under the Contract to disclose such information 
       to contractors and agents of Canada engaged in the work of the User, 
       Canada shall not release or disclose such information outside the 
       Government of Canada without the prior written consent of the 
       Contractor.

2.     The foregoing obligation does not apply to information that:

       (a)    is publicly available from a source other than Canada;

       (b)    is or becomes known to Canada from a source other than the 
              Contractor, except from any source that is known to Canada to 
              be under an obligation to the Contractor not to disclose the 
              information; or

       (c)    is developed by Canada without the use of the information of 
              the Contractor or its licensor.

<strong>9601-4 12     (1992-12-01)  Right to License</strong>

1.     The Contractor represents and warrants that it has the right to 
       license the Licensed Software and full power and authority to grant 
       to Canada the rights granted under the Contract.  The Contractor 
       further represents and warrants that all necessary consents to that 
       grant have been obtained.

2.     Except to the extent that those conditions may be expressly 
       incorporated in the Contract, it is agreed that conditions 
       accompanying or enclosed with the Licensed Software, if any, shall 
       not form part of Canada's license or affect the rights of the 
       Parties in any manner whatsoever.  In no event shall Canada or any 
       end user be required to enter into any further license agreement 
       with respect to the Licensed Software or any portion thereof after 
       the effective date of the Contract.

<strong>9601-4 13     (1992-12-01)  Warranty</strong> 
1.     In this section, unless otherwise indicated in the Contract, "
       Warranty Period" means a period of 90 days from the date on which 
       the Contractor has completed the whole of the Work in accordance 
       with the terms of the Contract, except for warranty work and any 
       other work which is scheduled under the Contract to be performed 
       after the start of the Warranty Period.

2.     The Contractor warrants that, during the Warranty Period, the 
       Licensed Programs shall operate in conformity with the 
       Specifications on the computer system or systems on which the 
       Licensed Programs are installed.  In the event that the Licensed 
       Programs fail to meet the foregoing warranty at any time during the 
       Warranty Period, the Contractor, at the request of Canada to do so, 
       shall, as soon as possible, correct, at its expense, any programming 
       errors and defects and make such additions, modifications or 
       adjustments to the Licensed Software as may be necessary to keep the 
       Licensed Programs in operating order, in accordance with the 
       Specifications.  Although the Contractor shall use all reasonable 
       efforts to provide permanent corrections for all software errors, 
       Canada acknowledges that certain errors may not be permanently 
       corrected by the Contractor under the foregoing warranty.  The 
       Contractor shall provide a software patch or by-pass around the 
       error in all cases where the error will not be permanently corrected.  
       As a minimum, any such software patch or by-pass shall cause the 
       Licensed Programs to meet the functional and performance criteria 
       set out in the Specifications.

3.     The Contractor warrants that, during the Warranty Period, the 
       Licensed Documentation shall be free from all defects in materials 
       and shall conform with the requirements of the Contract.  If Canada 
       discovers a defect or nonconformance in any part of the Licensed 
       Documentation during the Warranty Period, the Contractor, at the 
       request of Canada to do so, shall, as soon as possible, correct, at 
       its expense, the part of the Licensed Documentation found to be 
       defective or not in conformance with the requirements of the 
       Contract.

4.     The Contractor warrants that, during the Warranty Period, the Media 
       shall be free from all defects in materials or workmanship, and 
       shall conform with the requirements of the Contract.  Canada may 
       return nonconforming or defective Media to the Contractor within the 
       Warranty Period, with notice of the nonconformance or the defect, 
       and the Contractor shall promptly replace such Media with corrected 
       Media at no additional cost to Canada.

5.     If the Contractor is to perform support services with respect to the 
       Licensed Software during the Warranty Period, it is agreed that the 
       provisions concerning support shall not be interpreted so as to 
       derogate from the warranty provisions set out in this section.
 
6.     The warranties set out in this section shall survive inspection and 
       acceptance of the Work by or on behalf of Canada, and do not 
       restrict any other provision of the Contract or any condition, 
       warranty or provision implied or imposed by law.

<strong>9601-4 14     (1992-12-01)  Availability of Source Code</strong>

1.     This section applies if the Contract does not otherwise require the 
       Contractor to provide the source code for the Licensed Software to 
       Canada.

2.     If the Contractor and Canada have not entered into a separate escrow 
       agreement concerning the source code with an escrow agent on or 
       prior to the effective date of the Contract, then the Contractor 
       shall put in place for Canada, at no additional charge, whatever 
       escrow arrangements, if any, it usually puts in place for its 
       customers, and shall give Canada, within thirty (30) days of the 
       date of execution of the Contract, a copy of the agreement with its 
       escrow agent which sets out the terms under which the escrow agent 
       is authorized to release the source code to Canada.

<strong>9601-4 15     (1992-12-01)  Right to Modify</strong>

If the source code for the Licensed Programs is provided to Canada under 
the terms of the Contract, that code shall form part of the "Licensed 
Software" for the purposes of the Contract, and Canada shall have the right, 
at Canada's discretion, to independently copy and modify the Licensed 
Software for Canada's own purposes and use, through the services of Canada'
s own employees or of independent contractors provided such contractors 
agree not to disclose or distribute any part of the Licensed Software to 
any other person or entity or otherwise violate the proprietary rights of 
the owner of the Licensed Software.  Canada shall be the owner of any such 
modifications, but shall obtain no ownership interest in the Licensed 
Software, and any portion of the Licensed Software contained in such 
modifications shall remain subject to the terms and conditions of Canada's 
license.  The Contractor shall not incorporate any such modifications into 
its software for distribution to third parties unless Canada has granted 
the necessary distribution rights to the Contractor pursuant to a written 
license agreement.  The provisions of this section shall not be interpreted 
so as to preclude the Contractor or its third-party licensors from 
independently developing modifications.

<strong>9601-4 16     (1992-12-01)  Risk of Loss</strong>

1.     Risk of loss of or damage to the Licensed Software or the Media, or 
       to any part thereof, shall pass to Canada upon delivery of the 
       Licensed Software or the Media, or that part, to Canada.

2.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, the Contractor shall be liable for 
       loss or damage to the Licensed Software or Media that is caused by 
       the Contractor or any of its Subcontractors after delivery.

<strong>9601-4 17     (1992-12-01)  Destruction on Termination</strong>

In the event of termination or expiration of Canada's license, Canada will, 
upon the written request of the Contractor, either return all copies of the 
Licensed Software to the Contractor or, at Canada's option, will represent 
in writing to the Contractor that all copies of the Licensed Software have 
been destroyed except for one copy which may be retained by Canada for 
archival purposes only.


</pre>