<pre><strong>1028   (2004-12-10)  Ship Construction - Firm Price</strong>

<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Conduct of Work
03     Inspector Final Judge of Work, Materials, etc.
04     Re-execution of Inferior Work
05     Drawings
06     Design Changes and Modifications
07     Labour Conditions
08     Accommodation
09     Care of Vessel during Construction
10     Wharfage and Dockage Fee
11     Overhanging Charges
12     Warranty
13     Public Ceremony
14     Insurance
15     Amendment to General Conditions 1026A




<strong>1028   01     (2004-12-10)  Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires:

       "Canada", "Crown", "Her Majesty" or "the Government" means Her 
       Majesty the Queen in right of Canada;

       a "Design Change" is any change to approved drawings, Specifications, 
       or statements of requirements.  Work necessary to eliminate "fouling
       " points or for the correction of errors made by the Contractor is 
       not a "Design Change" within the meaning of this section;

       "the General Conditions" means general conditions 1026A forming part 
       of the Contract;

       "Inspector" means the inspection authority designated in the 
       Contract to carry out the inspection duties;

       the expression "make modifications of, changes in or additions to 
       the specifications," as the same is employed in section 19 of the 
       General Conditions, shall be deemed to include and to apply to "
       Design Changes" as herein before defined.

       "these supplemental conditions" means these supplemental general 
       conditions;

       "vessels" means the ships or vessels to be constructed by the 
       Contractor under the contract and includes the whole of their 
       respective hulls, engines, boilers, machinery, auxiliaries, 
       equipment, fittings, and appurtenances where the context permits, 
       the term "work" as used in the Contract includes the vessels as 
       herein defined;

2.     These supplemental general conditions shall be read with the General 
       Conditions, provided that, in the event of any inconsistencies 
       between the provisions of the General Conditions and of these 
       supplemental general conditions, the latter shall prevail.

3.     Where the Inspector is not specifically mentioned in the Contract, 
       the Minister may act in respect of any covenant, agreement, 
       condition or matter under the Contract by or through the Inspector 
       or by or through such other officers as he may from time to time 
       designate, with power in the Inspector or any such officers to 
       delegate in writing or by e-mail any of the powers contained in the 
       Contract.

<strong>1028   02     (2004-12-10)  Conduct of Work</strong>

1.     <strong>Canadian Labour</strong> 
       To the full extent consistent with availability, proper economy and 
       the expeditious performance of the Contract, the Contractor will 
       employ Canadian labour exclusively.  A reasonable proportion of the 
       labour force employed will consist of persons who have been 
       demobilized or honourably discharged from Active Service in Canadian 
       Forces, where such persons are available and qualified for the Work 
       to be performed.

2.     <strong>Materials</strong>

       The Contractor hereby warrants, represents, and agrees that it will 
       procure all materials, parts, components and equipment required in 
       connection with the performance of Contract from the sources 
       proposed in its tender or such other sources as may be authorized by 
       the Minister.

3.     <strong>Performance Control</strong>

       The Contractor may, at any time, apply to the Minister for advice or 
       direction on matters pertaining to the Contract.

       The Contractor shall submit for examination by the Inspector and/or 
       the Minister all proposed contracts including those to be effected 
       by Purchase Orders, if requested to do so.

       The Contractor shall permit the Inspector to examine any designs, 
       drawings, models or Specifications, completed or under preparation 
       by it or on its behalf in connection with the Contract at any time.

       All directions and instructions that may, from time to time, be 
       given by the Inspector and/or the Minister with respect to the 
       recording and reporting upon the conduct, progress and cost of the 
       work, shall be duly carried out by the Contractor. 

<strong>1028   03     (1991-06-01)  Inspector Final Judge of Work, Materials, etc.</strong>

If any part of the Specifications provides for a method of construction or 
for the supply and/or use of materials, equipment or parts which are not 
specified with particularity, the Contractor shall have the right of 
selection provided that the construction so performed and the materials, 
equipment and parts so supplied and/or used are in accordance with good 
marine building practice for the type and class of vessels covered by the 
Contract, and provided that the Specifications and drawings and all other 
Contract requirements are fully complied with.  The Inspector shall be the 
final judge of the quality, quantity and suitability of the workmanship, 
parts, materials, plant, machinery, apparatus, tools and equipment used in 
or for the purposes of the Work and as to the meaning or interpretation of 
the Specifications and its decision with regard to the foregoing matters, 
or any of them, shall be final and binding upon the Contractor.  All orders, 
directions or instructions at any time given by the Inspector with respect 
to the Work or the conduct or progress thereof or with respect to the parts, 
materials, plant, apparatus, machinery, tools or equipment used in or for 
the purposes of the Work, shall be promptly and fully complied with by the 
Contractor.

<strong>1028   04     (2004-12-10)  Re-execution of Inferior Work</strong>

The Inspector may reject or refuse to accept or approve any part of the 
materials or Work if, in its opinion, the same or any workmanship, parts or 
materials used in the manufacture or production thereof are not in 
accordance with the provisions of the Contract.  The Contractor shall 
forthwith at its own expense replace or otherwise make good to the 
satisfaction of the Inspector any part of the materials or Work which may 
have been rejected by the Inspector.  Canada shall not be under any 
liability hereunder for any work done, materials, or parts delivered or 
assembly made by the Contractor hereunder, unless and until the same shall 
have been approved by the Inspector as evidenced by its certificate in 
writing.

<strong>1028   05     (2004-12-10)  Drawings</strong>

1.     All drawings, copies of drawings and models, which have been 
       prepared by the Contractor pursuant to the Contract or furnished to 
       the Contractor by Canada, shall be the sole property of Canada and 
       may be used as Canada sees fit.

2.     Approval of the drawings, whether express or implied, shall not 
       relieve the Contractor of its responsibility under the Contract to 
       deliver a vessel that will meet the performance requirements in the 
       Specifications.

3.     Where modifications are requested to the drawings prior to their 
       approval, the Contractor shall be deemed to have accepted such 
       modifications and to have agreed that they do not constitute a 
       change in Specifications and that they will not affect the 
       performance of the vessel adversely, unless it notifies the Minister, 
       in writing, within fourteen (14) days after receipt by it or notice 
       of the modification, that it considers that such modification 
       constitutes a change in specification or that it will adversely 
       affect the performance of the vessel.  In the event that the 
       Contractor does not withdraw such notice, it shall be deemed to be 
       relieved of any liability for failure of the vessel to perform in 
       accordance with the warranty insofar as such failure can be shown to 
       be the direct result of such modification.   
4.     The provisions of the preceding subsection shall apply to Design 
       Changes, "<em>mutatis mutandis</em>". 

<strong>1028   06     (2004-12-10)  Design Changes and Modifications</strong>

1.     Any adjustment to the contract price made pursuant to section 19 of 
       the general conditions 1026A shall be ascertained and agreed to by 
       the parties hereto prior to the purchase of any materials or the 
       commencement of any work by the Contractor. 

2.     If the Contractor proposes to make a claim for adjustment of the 
       contract price pursuant to section 19 as aforesaid, it must furnish 
       notice to the Minister of its intention to do so within thirty (30) 
       days of the date that it received information that a change within 
       the scope of section 19 has been made.  Failure by the Contractor to 
       give such notice within the prescribed period shall be deemed to 
       constitute a waiver by it of any rights that it may have hereunder 
       to adjustment in the contract price as a result of such change.

<strong>1028    07    (1991-06-01)  Labour Conditions</strong>

The applicable Labour provisions established by Order-in-Council PC 
1954-2029 of December 22, 1954, and by all amendments thereto shall apply 
and form part of the Contract.

<strong>1028   08     (2004-12-10)  Accommodation</strong>

1.     <strong>Personnel</strong>

       The Contractor shall provide for the Inspector and any supervisory 
       or other staff employed by Canada , such office space, office 
       facilities, telephone service, and suitable sanitary and washing 
       facilities as the Inspector or the Minister may require from time to 
       time at the Contractor's shipyard.

2.     <strong>Storage and Handling</strong>

       The Contractor shall supply suitable warehouse accommodation for all 
       government supply stores issued in connection with the Contract for 
       such length of time as the Minister may direct.  The Contractor 
       shall be responsible for the care, handling, embarking, loading, 
       moving and similar duties in respect of supply stores in the custody 
       or control of the Contractor or of the Inspector as the Inspector or 
       the Minister may from time to time direct. 

<strong>1028   09     (2004-12-10)  Care of Vessel during Construction</strong>
 
1.     All parts of the vessel including, but not limited to, structure, 
       paint work, machinery, auxiliaries, appliances and apparatus shall 
       be maintained in a satisfactory condition during the entire period 
       of construction.  Measures shall be taken to keep to a minimum any 
       wear and damage incident to construction, and to prevent corrosion, 
       or other deterioration, especially to unpainted, polished and moving 
       parts.  All water piping, heat exchangers, valve chests and 
       equipment shall be kept drained, flushed, and cleaned except during 
       trials and tests.  Cold weather precautions will be taken when 
       conditions so require. 

2.     The Contractor shall be responsible for the care of all machinery 
       and equipment whether furnished by him or by Canada.  Electrical, 
       electronic and interior communication equipment shall, at all times, 
       be fully protected against dust, moisture, or other foreign matter, 
       and shall not be subjected to rapid temperature changes.

3.     The Contractor shall ensure that the design form of the vessel is 
       maintained throughout the course of construction and that no 
       distortion of materials occurs which might cause locked-in stresses. 

<strong>1028   10     (1991-06-01)  Wharfage and Dockage Fee</strong>

Until the completion of the Contract, the Contractor shall be responsible 
for and shall pay all expenses of wharfage, towage, dockage, running lines, 
electric light, heating water for testing and refilling the tanks and all 
other charges, fees, expenses and disbursements for incidental to the 
construction, launching and delivery of the vessel.  If at any time after 
the launching and before final acceptance of the said vessel, any 
contingency should arise making it, in the opinion of the Inspector, 
advisable to have such vessel placed in dock for survey, the Contractor 
shall dock the vessel at its own risk and expense. 

<strong>1028   11     (2004-12-10)  Overhanging Charges</strong>

In the event of any assessments, taxes or duties, or other levies or 
charges whatsoever, being unpaid after the vessel has been formally 
accepted by the Minister, and Canada has complied with all the provisions 
imposed upon Canada by the Contract, the Contractor shall reimburse Canada 
within thirty (30) days thereafter for any such assessments, taxes, duties, 
levies or charges as may have been paid by Canada. 

<strong>1028   12     (2004-12-10)  Warranty</strong>

The Contractor shall warrant the hull, propelling machinery and auxiliaries, 
fittings, and equipment of all kinds, for a full period of twelve (12) 
months after delivery to and acceptance of the vessel by Canada, excluding 
any time or times in excess of one (1) month upon any single occasion 
during which the vessel may be out of service while undergoing repair 
pursuant hereto, against all defects of design, material and workmanship, 
and undertakes that any part or parts of the vessel which may be found 
defective or show signs of weaknesses or undue wear within such period, 
owing to faulty design, material or workmanship, shall be repaired or 
removed and replaced and all such defects remedied and made good at the 
sole cost and expense of the Contractor.  An immediate notice in writing 
shall be given by the Minister to the Contractor of the discovery of any 
such defects, weakness or undue wear, and the Contractor agrees to deliver 
the necessary part or parts and to fit, complete and make good the 
defective part or parts at the Contractor's yard at _____, but if the 
vessel is not brought to the Contractor's yard for repairs or replacement 
of a defective part or parts and such repairs or replacements are made 
elsewhere, the Contractor shall pay Canada such sums as are equivalent to 
the cost of supplying the necessary part or parts and doing the Work at the 
yard of the Contractor.  The Contractor shall not be held responsible for 
fair wear and tear, or for breakage and defects arising through the 
negligence or carelessness of any person or persons employed on board the 
vessel during the warranty period, except the negligence or carelessness of 
the Contractor's representative if any.  The Contractor will not be held 
responsible for or be under any obligation for consequential damages and 
delays to the vessel or her cargo. 

<strong>1028   13     (1991-06-01)  Public Ceremony</strong>

Unless otherwise provided in the Contract, the Contractor shall not be 
entitled to any increase in the contract price by reason of any public 
ceremony.  The Contractor shall not allow any public ceremony in connection 
with the Work without having previously obtained the written permission of 
the Minister.

<strong>1028   14     (2004-12-101) Insurance</strong>

1.     Notwithstanding any other provisions herein contained, the 
       Contractor shall bear and be subject to all risk of loss or damage 
       of or to the Work or any part thereof until delivery of the vessel 
       and final acceptance of same pursuant to the provisions hereof.  If 
       any such loss or damage should occur prior to such delivery and 
       final acceptance, the Contractor shall forthwith (unless otherwise 
       directed by the Minister or the Inspector and subject to such 
       conditions as the Minister or the Inspector may impose), at its own 
       expense and without making any claim for reimbursement therefor, 
       repair, restore and/or replace the Work or the part thereof so lost 
       or damaged.
 
2.     The Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless Canada against and 
       from any and all claims, damages, loss, costs and expenses which 
       Canada may, at any time or times, suffer or incur as a result of or 
       arising out of any actual or alleged injury to persons (including 
       injuries resulting in death) or damage to property which may be or 
       be alleged to be caused by or suffered as a result of the carrying 
       out of this Contract or any part thereof, whether by the Contractor 
       or by any subcontractor or assignee of the Contractor.

3.     The Contractor shall enter into a contract of insurance issued in 
       the joint names of the Contractor and Canada as their respective 
       interests may appear in the standard form of Marine Builder's Risk 
       Policy to provide full indemnification to Canada for any loss or 
       damage to the vessel or any other materials which are the property 
       of Canada for installation in the vessel in the custody of the 
       Contractor or any claim or expenses to Canada as aforesaid for which 
       the Contractor assumes responsibility hereunder, and the premium or 
       cost of such insurance coverage shall be incorporated into and form 
       part of the purchase price.

<strong>1028   15     (2004-12-10)  Amendment to General Conditions 1026A</strong>

The general conditions 1026A as incorporated herein is amended by deleting 
section 14.


</pre>