<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     The tooling required to perform the work under the Contract, and 
       listed below, will be supplied FOB Destination by the Department of 
       National Defence (DND).  The cutting tools will not be supplied.

2.     It is anticipated that the tooling will be available within fifteen 
       (15) days of contract award.  However, in the event of a delay in 
       delivery of this tooling, the Contractor shall not be entitled to 
       have or submit a claim resulting from any delay in the delivery of 
       this tooling.  The title to the tooling shall remain vested in 
       Canada including any replacement thereof.

3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21 of general conditions 
       9601, during the course of the Contract, the Contractor shall take 
       reasonable and proper care of the tooling while in his custody and 
       shall maintain and/or replace the tooling at his expense if damaged 
       through his mishandling or negligence.  At the conclusion of the 
       Contract, the Contractor will have in his possession a complete set 
       of the tooling in a usable condition.  The Contractor will not be 
       responsible for any loss or damage to the tooling caused by fire.

4.     Upon completion of the Contract, all related DND Canada-owned 
       tooling shall be 100 percent inspected by the Contractor for 
       condition and count.  Any items found unserviceable shall be 
       returned to serviceable condition.  Non-repairable items will be 
       reported to the Contracting Authority, Public Works and Government 
       Services Canada.  A form CF 1280 will be prepared by the Contractor 
       to confirm the tooling being returned and will list any components 
       which have been lost or are not repairable.  The DND Quality 
       Assurance representative will verify action taken by the Contractor 
       and will authorize release of the tooling for return to Quality 
       Engineering Test Establishment (QETE), Quebec City, for inspection 
       and storage.

5.     (a)    Upon completion of the Contract, the tooling shall be 
              immediately returned prepaid to:

              Quality Engineering Test Establishment 
              Metrology Mechanics Laboratory 
              57A St. Louis Street 
              Quebec, Quebec   G1R 3Z2

       (b)    The exterior of each box being returned to QETE shall be 
              identified as follows:

               -     description;
               -     kit no.; and
               -     quantity.

       (c)    Items not identified or not packaged in accordance with this 
              requirement and/or subsequently found to be unserviceable, 
              shall be returned to the Contractor.  The Contractor shall be 
              liable for return shipping costs and all costs involved in 
              restoring the tooling.


</pre>