<pre>1.     <strong>Financial Capability Requirement:</strong>  The Supplier must have the 
       financial capability to undertake this requirement.  To determine 
       the Supplier's financial capability, the Supply Arrangement 
       Authority may, by written notice to the Supplier, require the 
       submission of some or all of the financial information detailed 
       below during the evaluation of arrangements.  The Supplier must 
       provide the following information to the Supply Arrangement 
       Authority within fifteen (15) working days of the request or as 
       specified by the Supply Arrangement Authority in the notice:

       (a)    Audited financial statements, if available, or the unaudited 
              financial statements (prepared by the Supplier's outside 
              accounting firm, if available, or prepared in-house if no 
              external statements have been prepared) for the Supplier's 
              last three fiscal years, or for the years that the Supplier 
              has been in business if this is less than three years 
              (including, as a minimum, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of 
              Retained Earnings, the Income Statement and any notes to the 
              statements).

       (b)    If the date of the financial statements is more than three 
              months before the date of the request for information by the 
              Supply Arrangement Authority in (a) above, the Supplier must 
              also provide interim financial statements (consisting of a 
              Balance Sheet and a year-to-date Income Statement), as of two 
              months before the date on which the Supply Arrangement 
              Authority requests this information.

       (c)    If the Supplier has not been in business for at least one 
              full fiscal year, the following must be provided:

              (i)    the opening Balance Sheet on commencement of business 
                     (in the case of a corporation, the date of 
                     incorporation); and

              (ii)   interim financial statements (consisting of a Balance 
                     Sheet and a year-to-date Income Statement) as of two 
                     months before to the date on which the Supply 
                     Arrangement Authority requests this information.

       (d)    A certification from the Chief Financial Officer or an 
              authorized signing officer of the Supplier that the financial 
              information provided is complete and accurate.

       (e)    A confirmation letter from all of the financial institution(s) 
              that have provided short-term financing to the Supplier 
              outlining the total of lines of credit granted to the 
              Supplier and the amount of credit that remains available and 
              not drawn upon as of one month prior to the date on which the 
              Supply Arrangement Authority requests this information.

       (f)    A detailed monthly Cash Flow Statement, covering all the 
              Supplier's activities (including the requirement) for the 
              first two years of the requirement that is the subject of the 
              Request for Supply Arrangements (RFSA).  This statement must 
              detail the Supplier's major sources and amounts of cash and 
              the major items of cash expenditures on a monthly basis, for 
              all the Supplier's activities.  All assumptions made should 
              be explained as well as details of how cash shortfalls will 
              be financed.

       (g)    A detailed monthly Project Cash Flow Statement covering the 
              first two years of the requirement that is the subject of the 
              RFSA.  This statement must detail the Supplier's major 
              sources and amounts of cash and the major items of cash 
              expenditures, for the requirement, on a monthly basis.  All 
              assumptions  made should be explained as well as details of 
              how cash shortfalls will be financed.

2.     If the Supplier is a joint venture, the financial information 
       required by the Supply Arrangement Authority must be provided by 
       each member of the joint venture.

3.     If the Supplier is a subsidiary of another company, then any 
       financial information required by the Supply Arrangement Authority 
       in 1. (a) to (f) must be provided by each level of parent company, 
       to and including the ultimate parent company.  Provision of parent 
       company financial information does not satisfy the requirement for 
       the provision of the financial information of the Supplier and the 
       financial capability of a parent cannot be substituted for the 
       financial capability of the Supplier itself, unless a duly executed 
       Parental Guarantee is provided with the required information.

4.     <strong>Other Information</strong>:  Canada reserves the right to request from the 
       Supplier any other information that Canada requires to conduct a 
       complete financial capability assessment of the Supplier. 

5.     <strong>Confidentiality</strong>:  Should the Supplier provide the information 
       required above to Canada in confidence while indicating that the 
       disclosed information is confidential, then Canada will treat the 
       information in a confidential manner as permitted by the <em>Access to 
       Information Act</em>, R.S. 1985, c. A-1, Section 20(1) (b) and (c). 

6.     <strong>Security</strong>:  In determining the Supplier's financial capability to 
       undertake this requirement, Canada may consider any security the 
       Supplier is capable of providing, at the Supplier's sole expense 
       (for example, an irrevocable letter of credit from a registered 
       financial institution drawn in favour of Canada, a performance 
       guarantee from a third party or some other form of security, as 
       determined by Canada).



</pre>