<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>1026A  00     (2005-12-16)  Supplies - Firm Price </strong>


<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Powers of Minister
03     Assignment and Subletting
04     Conduct of the Work
05     Specifications, Drawings, etc.
06     Inspection
07     Title and Acceptance
08     Warranty
09     Government Issue
10     Conditions Precedent to Payment
11     Indemnity Against Claims
12     Title on Progress Payments
13     Further Assurances
14     Care of Crown Property
15     Time of Essence
16     Security and Protection of the Work
17     Patent Claims and Royalties
18     Patent Licenses and Use of Technical Information
19     Suspension of Work and Change in Specifications
20     Use of Canadian Labour and Materials - <strong>CANCELLED</strong>
21     Default by Contractors
22     No Bribe, etc.
23     Labour and Health Conditions
24     Members of the House of Commons
25     Notice
26     Terminations
27     Accounts
28     Foreign Exchange
29     Increased Taxes and Duties 
30     Certification - Contingency Fees
31     Interest on Overdue Accounts
32     Conflict of Interest


<strong>1026A  01     (2004-12-10)  Interpretation </strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires,

       "Agreement" means the particular agreement or contract of which, in 
       each specific case, these general conditions are made a part;

       "Canada", "Crown","Her Majesty", "the Government" means Her Majesty 
       the Queen in right of Canada;

       "Contract" includes the Agreement, these general conditions and any 
       supplemental general conditions, specifications, labour conditions, 
       schedules and any other documents referred to in the Agreement as 
       constituting the Contract;

       "Contract Price" means the amount expressed in the Contract to be 
       payable to the Contractor for the finished work;

       "cost" means cost determined in accordance with Contract Cost 
       Principles 1031-2 (as revised to date of Contract) and any 
       subsequent revisions thereof;

       "equipment" includes machinery, apparatus, jigs, tools, dies, gauges, 
       instruments and equipment of all kinds;

       "finished work" means the defence supplies or defence project or 
       other work completed in accordance with the provisions of the 
       Contract;
 
       "Government Issue" means all materials, parts, components, equipment, 
       specifications, articles and things which may be supplied to the 
       Contractor by or on behalf of Canada for the purposes of the Work;

       "herein", "hereby", "hereof", "hereunder" and similar expressions, 
       when used in any section, shall be understood to relate to the 
       Contract as a whole and not merely to the section in which they 
       appear;

       "Inspector" means the person designated as such by the Contract and 
       any person acting on behalf of Canada or the Minister as the 
       Inspector under the Contract;

       "invention" means any new and useful art, process, machine, 
       manufacture or composition of matter, or any new and useful 
       improvement in any art, process, machine, manufacture or composition 
       of matter;

       "Minister" means the minister responsible for the Contract and 
       includes his deputy minister and any acting, associate or assistant 
       deputy minister and any duly authorized officer or representative of 
       the Minister;

       "Specifications" means the specifications, plans, drawings, designs 
       and models, if any, furnished to the Contractor by Canada or the 
       Minister for the carrying out of the Contract;

       "supplemental general conditions" means any other general conditions 
       forming part of the Contract;

       "Work" means the whole of the work, materials, matters and things 
       required to be done, furnished and performed in order to carry out 
       the Contract;

2.     Words in the singular number includes the plural and vice versa.

3.     In the event of any inconsistencies, the provisions of the Agreement 
       and these general conditions shall prevail over the specifications 
       and the provisions of the Agreement and supplemental general 
       conditions shall prevail over these general conditions.

4.     The Contract is a defence contract within the meaning of the <em>Defence 
       Production Act</em> and shall be read accordingly.

<strong>1026A  02     (1999-12-13)  Powers of Minister</strong>

The Minister is the agent of Canada for all purposes of the Contract.  
Nothing contained in or omitted from the Contract shall restrict any of the 
rights or powers of Canada or the Minister under the <em>Defence Production Act</em> 
or otherwise.  Every right, remedy, power and discretion vested in the 
Minister under the Contract or otherwise shall be cumulative and 
non-exclusive. 

<strong>1026A  03     (2000-12-01)  Assignment and Subletting</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall not assign the Contract or sublet any of the 
       Work without the prior written consent of the Minister and any 
       assignment or subletting made without such consent shall be of no 
       effect provided that, unless the Contract or the Minister directs 
       otherwise, the Contractor may sublet such portions of the Work as is 
       customary in the carrying out of similar contracts.  No assignment 
       or subletting shall relieve the Contractor from any of its 
       obligations under the Contract or impose any liability upon Canada 
       or the Minister to an assignee or subcontractor.

2.     Unless otherwise agreed to by the Minister in any assignment or 
       subletting, the Contractor agrees to bind each assignee or 
       subcontractor by the terms of the general conditions, the 
       supplemental general conditions, if any, the Labour Conditions, the 
       drawings and specifications as far as applicable to the Work.

3.     No act or omission of the Contractor, whether before or after the 
       entry into the Contract, shall have the effect of rendering any 
       monies payable by Canada under the Contract payable to any person, 
       firm or corporation other than the Contractor, unless Canada 
       consents thereto.

4.     Subject to the preceding provisions of this section, the Contract 
       shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon the 
       successors and assigns of Canada and the Contractor, respectively.
 
<strong>1026A  04     (1991-06-01)  Conduct of the Work</strong>

1.     The Contractor agrees to carry out the Work diligently and to 
       provide efficient supervision and inspection thereof and that the 
       Work will be of proper quality, material and workmanship and in full 
       conformity with the specifications, drawings, models or samples, if 
       any, and all other requirements of the Contract. 

2.     No materials or parts shall be used or processed and no finished 
       work shall be submitted for acceptance or shall be delivered unless 
       or until approved by the Contractor's inspection staff and, wherever 
       practicable, marked with an approval stamp satisfactory to the 
       Inspector.  The Contractor shall keep proper and adequate inspection 
       records which shall at all times be open to examination by the 
       Inspector who may make copies thereof and take extracts therefrom.

3.     The Minister and the Inspector shall have access to the Work at all 
       times and to the plant and premises where any part of the Work is 
       being carried on, and may make such inspections and tests of the 
       Work and of parts, materials and work-in-process as the Minister or 
       the Inspector may think fit.  The Contractor shall provide at its 
       own expense all assistance and facilities, test pieces and samples 
       which the Minister or the Inspector may reasonably require for the 
       carrying out of any such inspections and any such tests as aforesaid, 
       and shall forward at its own expense such test pieces and samples to 
       such person or location as the Minister or the Inspector may direct.  
       The Contractor shall at its own expense provide the Minister and the 
       Inspector with such accommodation as they may require for the 
       purpose of such inspections and any such tests and for the exercise 
       of any other powers conferred upon them hereunder.

4.     The Contractor shall not stop or suspend work pending the settlement 
       or determination of any differences arising under the Contract, 
       unless so instructed by the Minister.

<strong>1026A  05     (1999-12-13)  Specifications, Drawings, etc. </strong>

1.     All Specifications, drawings, patterns, samples and other 
       information furnished to the Contractor in connection with the 
       Contract shall be used by the Contractor solely for the purpose of 
       carrying out the Work and for no other purpose except with the 
       consent in writing of the Minister and shall remain the property of 
       Canada and be returned to Canada or the Minister upon demand.

2.     Any minor part or parts not shown in the Specifications, drawings, 
       patterns or samples, but which are necessary for the due completion 
       of the Work shall be deemed to be included in the Contract price and 
       no addition to the Contract Price will be allowed by reason of such 
       omission, unless otherwise agreed to by the Minister.


<strong>1026A  06     (1991-06-01)  Inspection </strong>

All work shall be subject to inspection by the Inspector prior to 
acceptance.  Should the Work be defective in materials or workmanship or 
otherwise not be in accordance with the requirements of the Contract, the 
Inspector shall have the right to reject the Work or to require its 
correction.  Inspection by the Inspector either at the plant of the 
Contractor or of any of its subcontractors shall not relieve the Contractor 
from responsibility for defects or other failure to meet the requirements 
of the Contract.  The Contractor agrees to accept and be bound by the 
Inspector's interpretation of the meaning of the specifications.

<strong>1026A  07     (2000-12-01)  Title and Acceptance </strong>

Except as otherwise provided in the Contract, title to the Work or any part 
thereof shall vest in Canada upon delivery to the consignee and acceptance 
thereof by the consignee.  Acceptance by the consignee of the Work or any 
part thereof shall be deemed to be acceptance thereof by Canada.

<strong>1026A  08     (2004-12-10)  Warranty </strong>

Notwithstanding prior acceptance of the finished work, and without 
restricting any other term of the Contract or any condition, warranty or 
provision implied or imposed by law, the Contractor, if requested by the 
Minister to do so at any time within twelve (12) months from the date of 
delivery, shall:

(a)    replace or make good at its own expense any finished work, excluding 
       Government Issue incorporated therein, which becomes defective or 
       which fails to conform to contract requirements as a result of 
       faulty or inefficient manufacture, material or workmanship;
 
(b)    deliver such finished work free from all defects to the delivery 
       point specified in the Contract, unless otherwise agreed to by the 
       Minister;

provided that where, in the opinion of the Minister, it is not expedient to 
remove such defective finished work from its location, the Contractor shall 
replace or make good the defective finished work at such location, and 
shall be paid the actual cost incurred in so doing (including reasonable 
travelling and living expenses) with no allowance thereon by way of 
overhead profit, less a sum equivalent to the cost of making good the 
defective finished work had it been made good at the Contractor's plant.

<strong>1026A  09     (1999-12-13)  Government Issue </strong>

1.     All items comprised in any Government Issue shall be used by the 
       Contractor solely for the purposes of the Contract and shall always 
       be and remain the property of Canada and wherever feasible the 
       Contractor shall maintain adequate accounting records of all 
       Government Issue and shall mark the same as being Canada's property.

2.     All Government Issue (except such as are installed or incorporated 
       in the Work) shall be returned to Canada upon demand, in the same 
       condition as when supplied to the Contractor provided that the 
       Contractor shall not be responsible for any loss or damage resulting 
       from ordinary wear and tear or causes beyond the Contractors' 
       control.

3.     All scrap and waste materials derived from any Government Issue or 
       from any other materials, articles or things which are the property 
       of Canada, shall, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, 
       remain the property of Canada and shall be disposed of only as 
       prescribed by the Minister.

<strong>1026A  10     (2004-12-10)  Conditions Precedent to Payment </strong>

No payment shall be made to the Contractor unless or until,

(a)    invoices, inspection notes and all other documents prescribed from 
       time to time by the Minister or Inspector are submitted in 
       accordance with the terms of the Contract or instructions of the 
       Minister, and 

(b)    the Contractor, if required to do so, establishes to the 
       satisfaction of the Minister that all materials, parts, 
       work-in-process or finished work in respect of which payment is 
       being made are free from all claims, liens, attachments, charges or 
       encumbrances.

<strong>1026A  11     (2004-12-10)  Indemnity Against Claims</strong>

Except as otherwise provided in the Contract, the Contractor shall 
indemnify and save harmless Canada and the Minister from and against any 
and all claims, damages, loss, costs and expenses which they or either of 
them may at any time incur or suffer as a result of or arising out of, 

(a)    any injury to persons (including injuries resulting in death) or 
       loss of or damage to property of others which may be or be alleged 
       to be caused by or suffered as a result of the carrying out of the 
       Work or any part thereof; and 

(b)    any liens, attachments, charges or other encumbrances or claims upon 
       or in respect of any materials, parts, work-in-process or finished 
       work delivered to or in respect of which any payment has been made 
       by Canada.

<strong>1026A  12     (2000-12-01)  Title on Progress Payments</strong>

Upon any payment being made to the Contractor for or on account of 
materials, parts, work-in-process, or finished work, either by way of 
progress payments or accountable advances or otherwise, title in and to all 
materials, parts, work-in-process and finished work so paid for by such 
progress payments or accountable advances or otherwise shall vest and 
remain in Canada unless already so vested under any provision of the 
Contract and the Contractor shall be responsible therefor in accordance 
with the provisions of section 14 hereof, it being understood and agreed 
that such vesting of title in Canada shall not constitute acceptance by 
Canada of such materials, parts, work-in-process and finished work and 
shall not relieve the Contractor of its obligations to perform the Work in 
conformity with the requirements of the Contract.

<strong>1026A  13     (1999-12-13)  Further Assurances</strong>

Wherever it is herein provided that title to any parts, materials, 
work-in-process or finished work becomes vested in Canada, the Contractor 
shall execute such conveyances thereof and other instruments as the 
Minister may request.

<strong>1026A  14     (1999-12-13)  Care of Crown Property</strong>

Except as otherwise provided in the Contract, no insurance shall be carried 
by the Contractor on any property, title to which is vested in Canada, 
including any machinery, equipment and production tooling which is the 
property of Canada.  The Contractor shall take reasonable and proper care 
of all property, title to which is vested in Canada, while the same is in, 
on or about the plant and premises of the Contractor or otherwise in his 
possession or subject to his control and shall be responsible for any loss 
or damage resulting from his failure to do so other than loss or damage 
caused by ordinary wear and tear.

<strong>1026A  15     (1991-06-01)  Time of Essence </strong>

Time shall be deemed to be of the essence of the Contract, provided that 
the time for completing any of the Work which has been or is likely to be 
delayed by reason of force majeure or other cause beyond the reasonable 
control of the Contractor shall be extended by a period equal to the length 
of the delay so caused, provided that prompt notice in writing of the 
occurrence causing or likely to cause such delay is given to the Minister.

<strong>1026A  16     (2000-12-01)  Security and Protection of the Work </strong>

1.     The Contractor shall keep confidential all information provided to 
       the Contractor by or on behalf of Canada in connection with the Work, 
       and all information developed by the Contractor as part of the Work, 
       and shall not disclose any such information to any person without 
       the written permission of the Minister, except that the Contractor 
       may disclose to a subcontractor, authorized in accordance with this 
       Contract, information necessary to the performance of the 
       subcontract.  This section does not apply to any information that:

       (a)    is publicly available from a source other than the Contractor; 
              or

       (b)    is or becomes known to the Contractor from a source other 
              than Canada, except any source that is known to the 
              Contractor to be under an obligation to Canada not to 
              disclose the information.

2.     When the Contract, the Work, or any information referred to in 
       subsection 1 is identified as TOP SECRET, SECRET, CONFIDENTIAL or 
       PROTECTED by Canada, the Contractor shall, at all times, take all 
       measures reasonably necessary for the safeguarding of the material 
       so identified, including those set out in the Department of Public 
       Works and Government Services Industrial Security Manual and its 
       supplements and any other instructions issued by the Minister.

3.     Without limiting the generality of subsections 1 and 2, when the 
       Contract, the Work, or any information referred to in subsection 1 
       is identified as TOP SECRET, SECRET, CONFIDENTIAL or PROTECTED by 
       Canada, the Minister shall be entitled to inspect the Contractor's 
       premises and the premises of a subcontractor at any tier for 
       security purposes at any time during the term of the Contract, and 
       the Contractor shall comply with, and ensure that any such 
       subcontractor complies with, all written instructions issued by the 
       Minister dealing with the material so identified, including any 
       requirement that employees of the Contractor or of any such 
       subcontractor execute and deliver declarations relating to 
       reliability screenings, security clearances and other procedures.

<strong>1026A  17     (2000-12-01)  Patent Claims and Royalties </strong>

1.     In this section, "Royalties" includes license fees and all other 
       payments analogous to royalties for, and also claims for damages 
       based upon, the use of infringement of any patent, registered 
       industrial design, or copyright, by the Contractor in, or the 
       furnishing of any engineering or technical assistance or services to 
       the Contractor for the performance of the Contract or any part 
       thereof.

2.     Canada shall indemnify the Contractor against claims, actions or 
       proceedings for the payment of royalties in respect of anything the 
       model, plan, design or specification of which shall have been 
       supplied by or on behalf of Canada to the Contractor, but this 
       indemnity shall apply only to the Contract.

3.     Except as provided in subsection 2 of this section, and subject as 
       hereinafter provided, the Contractor shall indemnify Canada against 
       claims, actions, or proceedings for the payment of royalties in 
       respect of the carrying out of the Contract, or in respect of the 
       use of or disposal by or for Canada of articles and supplies 
       furnished hereunder.

4.     The Contractor shall forthwith notify the Minister of all royalties 
       which the Contractor or any of its subcontractors will or may be 
       obligated to pay or proposes to pay for or in respect of the 
       carrying out of the Contract, and the basis thereof, and the parties 
       to whom the same are payable, and shall from time to time promptly 
       advise the Minister of any and all claims or arrangements made or 
       proposed which would or might result in further or different 
       payments by way of royalties being made by the Contractor or any of 
       its subcontractors.

5.     If and to the extent that the Minister so directs, the Contractor 
       shall not pay, and shall direct its subcontractors not to pay any 
       royalties in respect of the carrying out of the Contract except with 
       the consent in writing of the Minister and subject to such 
       conditions as the Minister may impose.

6.     From and after the giving of any such direction, and subject to 
       compliance by the Contractor with the foregoing provisions, Canada 
       shall relieve and indemnify the Contractor from and against all 
       claims, actions or proceedings for payment of such royalties as are 
       covered by such direction.

7.     The Contract Price shall be reduced by the amount of royalties 
       included therein to which the indemnity provided by subsection 6 of 
       this section shall apply.

<strong>1026A  18     (2003-12-12)  Patent Licenses and use of Technical 
                            Information </strong>

1.     The Contractor shall promptly report and fully disclose to the 
       Minister any and all inventions, methods or processes, whether 
       patented or unpatented, conceived or made in the course of carrying 
       out the Work and the Contractor agrees to and does hereby grant unto 
       Canada a non-
exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free license to make, have made and use for 
military purposes throughout the world and to sell or otherwise dispose of 
any article or thing embodying or using any and all such inventions, 
methods or processes, and a similar license to practice or cause to be 
practiced any such method or processes.

2.     Canada may duplicate, use, and disclose in any manner for Government 
       purposes, including delivery to other governments for the 
       furtherance of mutual defence of Canada and such other governments, 
       all or any part of the technical information including reports, 
       drawings, blueprints, and other data specified to be delivered by 
       the Contractor under this Contract.

<strong>1026A  19     (1991-06-01)  Suspension of Work and Change in Specifications</strong>

The Minister may, at any time and from time to time, order a suspension of 
the Work in whole or in part, and make modifications of, changes in or 
additions to the specifications, changes in methods of shipment or packing 
and in the place or time of delivery.  All directions given by the Minister 
with respect of the foregoing shall be complied with by the Contractor.  If 
any such suspension, modification, change or addition shall result in an 
increase or decrease in the cost of the Work, the Contract Price shall be 
adjusted accordingly provided that the Contractor shall in no event be 
entitled to compensation for any loss of anticipated profits and provided 
further that minor increases or decreases in cost shall be disregarded. 

<strong>1026A  20     (1992-04-01)  Use of Canadian Labour and Materials </strong>

CANCELLED

<strong>1026A  21     (2000-12-01)  Default by Contractor </strong>

1.     If the Contractor is in default in carrying out any of the terms, 
       conditions, or obligations of the Contract, or if the Contractor 
       becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or has a receiving order made against 
       it, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if an 
       order is made or resolution passed for the winding up of the 
       Contractor, or if the Contractor takes the benefit of any statute 
       for the time being in force relating to bankrupt or insolvent 
       debtors, the Minister may, upon giving notice in writing to the 
       Contractor, terminate the whole or any part of the Contract.

2.     Upon the giving of such notice, the Contractor shall have no claim 
       for any further payment save as hereinafter in this section 21 
       provided, but shall remain liable to Canada for all loss and damage 
       which may be suffered by Canada by reason of the default or 
       occurrence upon which such notice was based. 
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 2 of this section, the 
       Contractor shall not be liable for any loss or damage if the failure 
       to perform the Contract on which the notice of termination is based 
       arises out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or 
       negligence of the Contractor.  Such causes include but are not 
       restricted to strikes, floods, fires, epidemics, act of God or of 
       the Queen's enemies.

4.     Upon termination of the Contract under this section, the Minister 
       may require the Contractor to deliver to Canada, in the manner and 
       to the extent directed by the Minister, any finished work which has 
       not been delivered and accepted prior to such termination and any 
       materials, parts, work-in-process, or tools, which the Contractor 
       has specifically acquired or produced for the fulfilment of the 
       Contract.  Subject to the deduction of any claim which Canada may 
       have against the Contractor arising under the Contract or out of the 
       termination, Canada shall pay or credit to the Contractor the value 
       of all such finished work delivered pursuant to such direction and 
       accepted by Canada determined in accordance with the Contract Price 
       and shall pay or reimburse the Contractor the reasonable and proper 
       cost to the Contractor of all materials, parts or work-in-
process delivered to Canada pursuant to such direction.

5.     If after notice of termination of the Contract under the provisions 
       of subsection 1 of this section it is determined by the Minister 
       that the default of the Contractor is due to causes beyond the 
       control of the Contractor, such notice of termination shall be 
       deemed to have been issued pursuant to section 26 of these general 
       conditions and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto 
       shall be governed by that section.

<strong>1026A  22     (1999-12-13)  No Bribe, etc. </strong>

The Contractor warrants that no bribe, gift, or other inducement has been 
paid, given, promised or offered to any official or employee of Canada for, 
or with a view to, the obtaining of the Contract by the Contractor.

<strong>1026A  23     (1991-06-01)  Labour and Health Conditions </strong>

The Contractor shall comply with all labour conditions and with all health 
conditions and requirements, from time to time applicable to the Work.

<strong>1026A  24     (1991-06-01)  Members of the House of Commons</strong>

No members of the House of Commons shall be admitted to any share or part 
of the Contract or to any benefit to arise therefrom.

<strong>1026A  25     (1991-06-01)  Notice </strong>

Any notice to the Contractor hereunder shall be effectively given if sent 
by letter or by telegram, postage prepaid or with charges prepaid as the 
case may be, addressed to the Contractor at its address as given in the 
Contract or, if no address is so given, at its address as shown by the 
records of the Minister.  Any notice so given shall be deemed to have been 
received by the Contractor at the time when in the ordinary course such 
letter or telegram should have reached its destination.

<strong>1026A  26     (2004-05-14)  Termination</strong>

1.     Notwithstanding anything in the Contract contained, the Minister may, 
       by giving notice to the Contractor (hereinafter sometimes referred 
       to as a "termination notice"), terminate the Contract as regards all 
       or any part or parts of the Work not theretofore completed.  Upon a 
       termination notice being given, the Contractor shall cease work 
       (including the manufacturing and procuring of materials for the 
       fulfilment of the Contract) in accordance with and to the extent 
       specified in such notice.  The Minister may, at any time or from 
       time to time, give one or more additional termination notices with 
       respect to any or all parts of the work not terminated by any 
       previous termination notice.

2.     In the event of a termination notice being given under the 
       provisions of this section, and subject as hereinafter provided

       (a)    all finished work, whether completed before the giving of 
              such notice or completed thereafter pursuant to such notice, 
              shall be paid for (subject to acceptance in accordance with 
              the provisions of the Contract) on the basis of the Contract 
              Price;

       (b)    in respect of work not completed before the giving of such 
              notice, and not completed thereafter pursuant to such notice, 
              the Contractor shall be entitled to be reimbursed the actual 
              cost to the Contractor of such uncompleted work and to 
              receive in addition an amount representing a fair and 
              reasonable profit in respect of work done thereon.  Cost 
              shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of 
              Contract Cost Principles 1031-2, subject to any modifications 
              thereof which the Minister may consider to be appropriate in 
              the circumstances;

       (c)    subject as provided in paragraph (d) of this subsection 2, 
              the Contractor shall be entitled to be reimbursed the amount 
              of any capital expenditures specifically authorized by the 
              Contract or approved by the Minister for the purpose of the 
              Contract (and actually made or incurred) to the extent that 
              the same (less any depreciation in respect thereof already 
              taken into account in determining cost) were reasonably and 
              properly incurred by the Contractor in respect of and are 
              properly apportionable to the performance of the Contract and 
              not included in the amounts paid or payable to the Contractor 
              in respect of finished work;

       (d)    if the Contract is exclusively a Contract for the making of 
              capital expenditures in respect of additional equipment or 
              plant additions, the foregoing paragraphs (a) to (c) 
              inclusive of this subsection 2 shall not apply but Canada 
              shall pay, or reimburse the Contractor for the reasonable and 
              proper cost to the Contractor (not previously paid by Canada) 
              of:

              (i)    all additional equipment which, prior to the giving of 
                     the termination notice, shall have been purchased, 
                     acquired or manufactured by the Contractor, or 
                     contracted for and for which the Contractor is 
                     obligated to make payments, and

              (ii)   all additional equipment in process of manufacture by 
                     the Contractor as at the date of the giving of such 
                     notice and all work in connection with the 
                     construction of the plant addition up to the said date, 
                     including the cost of materials and parts contracted 
                     for by the Contractor for the purpose of such 
                     manufacture of construction and for which the 
                     Contractor is obligated to make payment.

3.     Provided always that no reimbursements shall be made in respect of 
       work which has been or may be rejected after inspection as not 
       complying with the requirements of the Contract. 

4.     The Contractor shall not be reimbursed any amount which, taken 
       together with any amounts paid or due or becoming due to the 
       Contractor under the Contract, shall exceed the Contract Price 
       applicable to the work or the particular part thereof.

5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of any of the foregoing subsections 1 
       to 4 inclusive, the amounts which the Contractor shall be entitled 
       to be reimbursed in the event of the giving of a termination notice 
       under this section 26 shall include, subject as hereinafter provided, 
       the costs of the Contractor of and incidental to the cancellation of 
       obligations incurred by the Contractor pursuant to the termination 
       notice, the cost of preparing the necessary accounts and statements 
       with respect to work performed to the effective date of such 
       termination and commitments made by the Contractor with respect to 
       the terminated portions of the Work, wages which the Contractor is 
       obligated under any laws and regulations for the time being in force, 
       to pay to employees whose services are no longer required by reason 
       of such termination, the costs of and incidental to the taking of an 
       inventory of materials, components, work-in-process and finished 
       work on hand at the effective date of the termination and other 
       costs and expenses of and incidental to the termination, in whole or 
       in part, of operations under the Contract provided always that 
       payment and reimbursement under the provisions of this subsection 
       shall be made only to the extent that it is established to the 
       satisfaction of the Minister that the costs and expenses aforesaid 
       were actually incurred by the Contractor and that the same are 
       reasonable and are properly attributable to the termination of the 
       Work or the part thereof so terminated.

6.     In case of disagreement as to the amount which the Contractor is 
       entitled to be reimbursed, the matter shall be referred to the 
       Federal Court.

7.     As far as practicable, the Contractor shall place purchase orders 
       and subcontracts on terms that will enable the Contractor to 
       terminate the same upon conditions and terms similar in effect to 
       these provided in this section, and generally the Contractor shall 
       co-operate with the Minister and do everything reasonably within its 
       power at all times to minimize and reduce the amount of Canada's 
       obligations in the event of termination hereunder.

8.     Title to all materials, parts, plant, equipment and work-in-process 
       in respect of which reimbursement is made to the Contractor as 
       herein provided shall, upon such reimbursement being made, pass to 
       and vest in Canada unless already so vested under any other 
       provision of the Contract and such materials, parts, plant, 
       equipment and work-in-process shall be delivered to the order of the 
       Minister, but the materials thus taken over will in no case be in 
       excess of what would have been required for performing the Contract 
       in full if no termination notice had been given.

9.     If the Minister is satisfied that by reason of any action taken 
       under the provisions of this section exceptional hardships have 
       resulted to the Contractor, then the Minister may, in his absolute 
       discretion, grant such allowance (not to include in any case, 
       however, any allowance or compensation for loss of profit) to the 
       Contractor as, in the opinion of the Minister, is warranted by the 
       circumstances.

10.    The Contractor shall have no claim for damages, compensation, loss 
       of profit, allowance or otherwise by reason of or directly or 
       indirectly arising out of any action or notice given by the Minister 
       under or pursuant to the provisions of this section to the extent in 
       this section expressly provided.

<strong>1026A  27     (1991-06-01)  Accounts</strong>

The Contractor shall keep proper accounts and records of the cost to the 
Contractor of the work and of all expenditures or commitments made by the 
Contractor in connection therewith and such accounts and records together 
with the related invoices, receipts and vouchers shall be open to audit and 
inspection by the authorized representatives of the Minister (who may make 
copies thereof and take extracts therefrom) at any time until the 
expiration of six (6) years from the end of the calendar year in which the 
Contract is terminated or completed and the Contractor shall afford all 
facilities for such audits and inspections and shall furnish the Minister 
and his authorized representatives with all such information as he or they 
may from time to time require with reference to such accounts, records, 
invoices, receipts and vouchers until the expiration of six (6) years from 
the end of the calendar year in which the Contract is terminated or 
completed, but shall preserve and keep the same available for audit and 
inspection at any time during such retention period. 

<strong>1026A  28     (1991-06-01)  Foreign Exchange </strong>

Unless otherwise provided in the Contract or agreed to by the Minister, the 
Contractor shall not be entitled to any increase in the Contract Price by 
reason of foreign exchange fluctuations.

<strong>1026A  29     (1991-06-01)  Increased Taxes and Duties</strong>

1.     In the event of any change in any tax imposed under the <em>Excise Act</em>, 
       the <em>Excise Tax Act</em>, or any duties imposed under the Customs Tariff 
       after the date of the Contract and which affects the cost to the 
       Contractor of the work, the Contract Price shall be adjusted to 
       reflect the increase or decrease in the cost to the Contractor.

2.     As a prerequisite of payment, the Contractor shall forward to the 
       Minister a certified statement showing the increase or decrease in 
       cost to the Contractor that is directly attributable to the change 
       in tax or duty.  Any price revision under this section may be 
       verified by government audit.

3      For the purpose of determining the adjustment in price referred to 
       in subsection 2 of this section resulting from any change in tax or 
       duty described in subsection 1 of this section, where such tax or 
       duty is changed after the date of submission of the Contractor's 
       tender or price proposal but public notice of such change has been 
       given by the Minister of Finance before the date of submission 
       thereof, the change of such tax or duty shall, for the purposes of 
       this section, be deemed to have occurred before the date of 
       submission of such tender or price proposal.

<strong>1026A  30     (1994-06-06)  Certification - Contingency Fees</strong>

1.     The Contractor certifies that it has not directly or indirectly paid 
       or agreed to pay and covenants that it will not directly or 
       indirectly pay a contingency fee for the solicitation, negotiation 
       or obtaining of this Contract to any person other than an employee 
       acting in the normal course of the employee's duties.

2.     All accounts and records pertaining to payments of fees or other 
       compensation for the solicitation, obtaining or negotiation of the 
       Contract shall be subject to the Accounts and Audit provisions of 
       the Contract. 
3.     If the Contractor certifies falsely under this section or is in 
       default of the obligations contained therein, the Minister may 
       either terminate this Contract for default in accordance with the 
       termination for default provisions of the Contract or recover from 
       the Contractor by way of reduction to the Contract Price or 
       otherwise the full amount of the contingency fee.

4.     In this section,

       "contingency fee" means any payment or other compensation that is 
       contingent upon or is calculated upon the basis of a degree of 
       success in soliciting or obtaining a government contract or 
       negotiating the whole or any part of its terms;

       "employee" means a person with whom the Contractor has an employer/
       employee relationship;

       "person" includes an individual or group of individuals, a 
       corporation, a partnership, an organization and an association and, 
       without restricting the generality of the foregoing, includes any 
       individual who is required to file a return with the registrar 
       pursuant to section 5 of the<em> Lobbyist Registration Act</em>, R.S. 1985 c.44 
       (4th Supplement) as the same may be amended from time to time.

<strong>1026A  31     (2000-12-01)  Interest on Overdue Accounts</strong>

1.     For the purposes of this section:

       "Average Rate" means the simple arithmetic mean of the Bank Rates in 
       effect at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time each day during the 
       calendar month which immediately precedes the calendar month in 
       which payment is made, where the "Bank Rate" means the rate of 
       interest established from time to time by the Bank of Canada as the 
       minimum rate at which the Bank of Canada makes short term advances 
       to members of the Canadian Payments Association.

       "date of payment" means the date of the negotiable instrument drawn 
       by the Receiver General for Canada and given for payment of an 
       amount due and payable;

       an amount is "due and payable" when it is due and payable by Canada 
       to the Contractor in accordance with the terms of the Contract; and

       an amount becomes "overdue" when it is unpaid on the first day 
       following the day upon which it is due and payable.

2.     Canada shall be liable to pay to the Contractor simple interest at 
       the Average Rate plus 3 percent per annum on any amount that is 
       overdue, from the date such amount becomes overdue until the day 
       prior to the date of payment, inclusive.  Interest shall be paid 
       without notice from the Contractor.

3.     Canada shall not be liable to pay interest in accordance with this 
       section if Canada is not responsible for the delay in paying the 
       Contractor.

4.     Canada shall not be liable to pay interest on overdue advance 
       payments.

<strong>1026A  32     (2005-12-16)  Conflict of Interest</strong>

The Contractor agrees that it is a term of the Contract that no person who 
is not in compliance with the provisions of the Conflict of Interest and 
Post-Employment Code for Public Office Holders, the Values and Ethics Code 
for the Public Service, or the Defence Administrative Orders and Directives 
governing Conflict of Interest and Post-Employment, shall derive any direct 
benefit from this Contract.


</pre>