<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     Interpretation:

       1.1    "day" means any period 24 consecutive hours;

       1.2    "month" means any period of 30 consecutive days; and

       1.3    "flight" means the movement of an aircraft from the point of 
              take-off to the first point of landing.

2.     Operation, Interruption or Cancellation of Charter Flights:

       2.1    The Carrier shall have exclusive operational control over 
              chartered aircraft and the contents and crew thereof.

       2.2    Every person who is provided with transportation on a 
              chartered aircraft shall comply with all the terms and 
              conditions of the contract, and all persons and property 
              aboard a chartered aircraft shall be subject to the authority 
              of the pilot-in-charge.

       2.3    The Carrier may:

              (a)    cancel or terminate a charter or any flight of a 
                     charter at any time,

              (b)    return to base or to the last point of landing, or

              (c)    divert or land at an intermediate point,

              when such action is deemed by the Carrier to be necessary 
              owing to the unserviceability of the aircraft, weather 
              conditions or other conditions beyond the control of the 
              Carrier.

3.     Dangerous Articles:

       The Charterer and the Carrier shall comply with the applicable 
       governmental regulations governing the carriage of dangerous goods.

4.     Space for the Carrier's Use:

       Any capacity in the chartered aircraft not being utilized by the 
       Charterer may, unless the Charterer objects, be used by the Carrier 
       for the carriage of its own personnel, baggage or goods.

5.     Cancellations, Non-Completions or Deviations:

       5.1    When a charter is cancelled by the Carrier after commencement, 
              charges shall be charged for the completed portion only.
 
       5.2    No charges shall be charged to the Charterer:

              (a)    where flights are not completed due to mechanical 
                     failure or crew casualties and the Carrier fails to 
                     arrange satisfactory alternative transportation; or

              (b)    in respect of any flying in an unsuccessful attempt to 
                     complete a flight required under the charter, unless 
                     the Charterer, his servant or agent agreed to such 
                     flying being done.

6.     Substitution of Aircraft:

       6.1    When, owing to causes beyond the control of the Carrier, the 
              chartered aircraft is unavailable at the time the charter 
              commences or becomes unavailable while carrying out the 
              charter, the Carrier may furnish another aircraft of the same 
              type or, with the consent of the Charterer, substitute any 
              other type of aircraft at the rates and charges applicable to 
              the aircraft originally chartered except as provided in 
              subsections 6.2 and 6.3.

       6.2    When a substituted aircraft is capable of a larger payload 
              than the aircraft originally chartered, the payload carried 
              in the substituted aircraft shall not be greater than the 
              payload that would have been available in the aircraft 
              originally chartered, unless the Charterer agrees to pay the 
              rates and charges applicable to the substituted aircraft.

       6.3    When the maximum payload of a substituted aircraft is smaller 
              than the maximum payload of the aircraft originally chartered, 
              charges shall be based on the rates and charges applicable to 
              the type of substituted aircraft, except that where such 
              rates and charges are higher than those for the aircraft 
              originally chartered, the rates and charges for the original 
              aircraft chartered shall apply.

7.     Determination of Firm Rate Per Hour:

       7.1    Except as provided in subsection 7.2, the hours and minutes 
              for which a charge is made shall be computed from the time 
              the aircraft leaves the surface of the earth and terminating 
              when the aircraft touches the surface of the earth at the 
              next point of landing. The term "Firm Rate Per Hour" is an 
              hourly charge or portion thereof of "AIR TIME" as defined in 
              Air Navigation Orders, Series VIII, No.2/CRCc.24 page 1 of 3, 
              and will be the basis of calculating charges for Air Services.
 
       7.2    When operations involve a continuous succession of flights, 
              each of less than ten (10) minutes duration, and the engine 
              is not shut down between such flights, air time shall be 
              computed from the time the aircraft leaves the surface of the 
              earth for the first flight and ceases when the aircraft 
              touches the surface of the earth at the final point of 
              landing.

       7.3    In determining the duration of a flight:

              (a)    each fraction of an hour shall be stated as a decimal, 
                     established on the basis of a six minute period,

              (b)    each period of less than three minutes shall be 
                     rounded to zero, and

              (c)    each period of between three and six minutes shall be 
                     rounded to six minutes,

              except that no flight shall be considered to have a duration 
              of less than 0.1 hour.

8.     Application of Rates and Charges Fixed Wing Only:

       8.1    On charters rates per mile shall apply for all point-to-point 
              flights where flight distances are measurable.

       8.2    Rates per hour shall apply when the Carrier is providing air 
              service for a Charterer engaged in operations involving 
              flights or parts thereof where flight distances are not 
              measurable, or when requested by Charterer and such request 
              is noted by the Carrier on the invoice.

9.     Methods of Measuring Distance Fixed Wing Only:

       9.1    When a flight is required to be flown over airways routes or 
              routes prescribed by the Department of Transport, the 
              distances shall be measured in straight lines along such 
              routes.

       9.2    The distances of flights, other than a flight referred to in 
   subsection 9.1, shall be measured in a straight line between the places 
   of commencement and termination of the work provided for in the charter, 
   using standard 8 miles to 1 inch aeronautical charts, National 
   Topographic Series, as issued by the Department of Energy, Mines and 
   Resources, Ottawa.
</pre>
</div>