<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>9601-6 00     (2004-12-10)  Contractor to Own Intellectual Property Rights 
                                          in Foreground Information</strong>

<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     Disclosure of Foreground Information
03     Contractor to Own Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground 
       Information 
04     License to Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information
05     License to Intellectual Property Rights in Background Information
06     Right to License
07     Transfer of Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information
08     Sale, Assignment, Transfer or Licensing of Intellectual Property 
       Rights in Foreground Information
09     Access to Information; Exception to Contractor Rights
10     Waiver of Moral Rights


<strong>9601-6 01     (2004-12-10)  Interpretation</strong>

1.     In the Contract, unless the context otherwise requires,

       "Background Information" means all Technical Information that is not 
       Foreground Information and that is proprietary to or the 
       confidential information of the Contractor, its subcontractors or 
       any other supplier of the Contractor;

       "Canada", "Crown", "Her Majesty", "the Government" means Her Majesty 
       the Queen in right of Canada;

       "Commercial Exploitation in Competition with the Contractor" does 
       not include exploitation by Canada or by any contractor where the 
       good or service produced through such exploitation is for end use by 
       Canada, nor does it include dissemination or distribution by Canada 
       to persons or to other governments at or below cost of any good or 
       service delivered under the Contract or produced through such 
       exploitation;

       "Firmware" means any computer program stored in integrated circuits, 
       read-only memory or other similar devices;

       "Foreground Information" means any Invention first conceived, 
       developed or reduced to practice as part of the Work under the 
       Contract and all other Technical Information conceived, developed or 
       produced as part of the Work under the Contract;

       "General Conditions" means general conditions 9601;

       "Intellectual Property Right" means any intellectual property right 
       recognized by the law, including any intellectual property right 
       protected through legislation (such as that governing patents, 
       copyright, industrial design, integrated circuit topography, or 
       plant breeders' rights) or arising from protection of information as 
       a trade secret or as confidential information;

       "Invention" means any new and useful art, process, machine, 
       manufacture or composition of matter, or any new and useful 
       improvement in any art, process, machine, manufacture or composition 
       of matter, whether or not patentable;

       "Software" means any computer program whether in source or object 
       code (including Firmware), any computer program documentation 
       recorded in any form or upon any medium, and any computer database, 
       and includes modifications to any of the foregoing;

       "Technical Information" means all information of a scientific, 
       technical or artistic nature  relating to the Work, whether oral or 
       recorded in any form or medium and whether or not subject to 
       copyright, including but not limited to any Inventions, designs, 
       methods, processes, techniques, know-how, models, prototypes, 
       patterns, samples, schematics, experimental or test data, reports, 
       drawings, plans, specifications, photographs, collections of 
       information, manuals and any other documents, and Software.  
       Technical Information does not include data concerned with the 
       administration of the Contract by Canada or the Contractor, such as 
       internal financial or management information, unless it is a 
       deliverable under the Contract.
 
2.     Words and expressions defined in the General Conditions and used in 
       these supplemental general conditions shall have the meanings 
       assigned to them in the General Conditions.

3.     In the event of any inconsistency between the General Conditions and 
       these supplemental general conditions, the applicable provisions of 
       these supplemental general conditions shall prevail.

4.     The General Conditions are amended by deleting the section entitled 
       "Copyright" in its entirety.

<strong>9601-6 02     (2001-05-25)  Disclosure of Foreground Information</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall promptly report and fully disclose to the 
       Minister all Foreground Information that could be Inventions, and 
       shall report and fully disclose to the Minister all other Foreground 
       Information not later than the time of completion of the Work or 
       such earlier time as the Minister or the Contract may require.

2.     The Contractor shall, in each disclosure under this section, 
       indicate the names of all subcontractors at any tier, if any, in 
       which Intellectual Property Rights to any Foreground Information 
       have vested or will vest.

3.     Before and after final payment to the Contractor, the Minister shall 
       have the right to examine all records and supporting data of the 
       Contractor which the Minister reasonably deems pertinent to the 
       identification of Foreground Information.

<strong>9601-6 03     (2001-05-25)  Contractor to Own Intellectual Property Rights 
                            in Foreground Information</strong>

1.     Subject to subsection 3 and section 07, and without affecting any 
       Intellectual Property Rights or interests therein that have come 
       into being prior to the Contract or that relate to information or 
       data supplied by Canada for purposes of the Contract, all 
       Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground Information shall 
       immediately, as soon as they come into existence, vest in and remain 
       the property of the Contractor.

2.     Notwithstanding the Contractor's ownership of the Intellectual 
       Property Rights in Foreground Information that is a prototype, model 
       or custom or customized system or equipment together with associated 
       manuals and other operating and maintenance documents and tools, 
       Canada shall have unrestricted ownership rights in those 
       deliverables, including the right to make them available for public 
       use, whether for a fee or otherwise, and, except in the case of 
       Software that is not necessary for the operation of the prototype, 
       model or system or equipment, the right to sell them.

3.     (a)    Where the Work under the Contract involves the preparation of 
              a database or other compilation using information or data 
              supplied by Canada or personal information referred to in 
              paragraph (b), then the Intellectual Property Rights that 
              shall vest under subsection 1 shall be restricted to the 
              Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information that 
              is capable of being exploited without the use of the 
              information or data supplied by Canada or such personal 
              information.  All Intellectual Property Rights in any 
              database or other compilation, the Foreground Information in 
              which cannot be exploited without the use of such information, 
              data, or personal information, shall vest in Canada.  The 
              Contractor agrees that it shall not use or disclose any such 
              information or data or personal information for any purpose 
              other than completing the Work under the Contract, and shall 
              not dispose of it except by returning it to Canada.  The 
              Contractor shall comply with the General Conditions of the 
              Contract in regard to maintaining the confidentiality of such 
              information, data or personal information.  Unless the 
              Contract otherwise expressly provides, the Contractor shall 
              deliver to Canada all such information, data or personal 
              information, together with every copy, draft, working paper 
              and note thereof that contains such information, data, or 
              personal information, upon the completion or termination of 
              the Contract or at such earlier time as the Minister may 
              require.

       (b)    Notwithstanding subsection 1, if the Work under the Contract 
              involves the collection of personal information as that term 
              is defined in the <em>Privacy Act</em> (R.S.C., c. P-21), then all 
              Intellectual Property Rights in and title to that personal 
              information shall, immediately upon the collection of it by 
              the Contractor, vest in Canada, and the Contractor shall have 
              no right or interest in it.
 
<strong>9601-6 04     (2001-05-25)  License to Intellectual Property Rights in 
                            Foreground Information</strong>

1.     In consideration of Canada's contribution to the cost of development 
       of the Foreground Information, the Contractor hereby grants to 
       Canada a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, world-wide, 
       fully-paid and royalty-free license to  exercise all Intellectual 
       Property Rights in the Foreground Information that vest in the 
       Contractor pursuant to section 03, for any public purpose except 
       Commercial Exploitation in Competition with the Contractor.  Canada'
       s license to the Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground 
       Information also includes the right to disclose the Foreground 
       Information to other governments for information purposes only.  The 
       Intellectual Property Rights arising from any modification, 
       improvement, development or translation of the Foreground 
       Information that is effected by or for Canada in the exercise of 
       this license shall vest in Canada, or in such person as Canada shall 
       decide.

2.     The Contractor acknowledges that Canada may wish to award contracts 
       for any of the purposes contemplated in subsection 1 and that such 
       contract awards may follow a competitive process.  The Contractor 
       agrees that Canada's license in relation to the Intellectual 
       Property Rights in the Foreground Information that vest in the 
       Contractor pursuant to section 03, includes the right to disclose 
       the Foreground Information to bidders for such contracts, and to 
       sub-license or otherwise authorize the use of that information by 
       any contractor engaged by Canada solely for the purpose of carrying 
       out such a contract. Canada shall require the bidder or the 
       contractor not to use or disclose any Foreground Information except 
       as may be necessary to bid for or to carry out that contract.

3.     For greater certainty and without limiting the generality of 
       subsections 1 and 2, Canada's right to modify, improve, translate, 
       reproduce or further develop any Foreground Information pursuant to 
       subsections 1 and 2:

       (a)    applies to Foreground Information that is Software, 
              notwithstanding any terms to the contrary delivered by the 
              Contractor with any deliverable, including the wording on any 
              shrink-wrapped license attached to any deliverable; and

       (b)    includes the right to reproduce and use Foreground 
              Information that is Software, or any modified or improved or 
              translated or further developed form of it, on any and all 
              computer systems owned, leased or operated by Canada anywhere 
              in the world.

4.     Notwithstanding subsections 1, 2, and 3, if any Foreground 
       Information arises solely from correction by the Contractor of 
       errors in Background Information that is Software, or from minor 
       modifications made by the Contractor to such Software, then the 
       license set out in subsections 1, 2 and 3<strong> </strong>shall not apply to that 
       Foreground Information and, unless otherwise agreed, the license 
       that applies to such Background Information shall apply to that 
       Foreground Information.

5.     Where the Intellectual Property Rights in any Foreground Information 
       are or will be owned by a Subcontractor at any tier, the Contractor 
       shall either obtain a license from that Subcontractor that permits 
       compliance with subsections 1, 2 and 3 or arrange for the 
       Subcontractor to convey directly to Canada the same rights by 
       execution of the form provided for that purpose by the Minister, in 
       which case the Contractor shall deliver that form to the Minister, 
       duly completed and executed by the Subcontractor, no later than the 
       time of disclosure to Canada of that Foreground Information.

6.     If the Contractor wishes to make use of any Canada-owned information 
       that was supplied for purposes of the Contract, for the commercial 
       exploitation or further development of any of the Foreground 
       Information, then the Contractor may make a written request for a 
       license to exercise the required Intellectual Property Rights in 
       that Canada-owned information, to the minister for whose department 
       or agency the Work is being or was carried out.  The Contractor 
       shall give that minister<strong> </strong>an explanation as to why such a license is 
       required.  That minister shall respond in writing to the request 
       within a reasonable period of time.  If the request is refused, the 
       response shall provide an explanation for the refusal.  Should that 
       minister agree to grant such a license, it shall be on terms and 
       conditions to be negotiated between the Contractor and that minister.  
       It is understood that those terms may include payment of 
       compensation to Canada.

7.     The Contractor may apply to the minister for whose department or 
       agency the Work is being or was carried out for a license to 
       commercially exploit a translation of the Foreground Information 
       which is effected by or for Canada, subject to the same restrictions 
       and obligations as apply under the Contract to commercial 
       exploitation of the Foreground Information that was translated.<strong>  </strong>Any 
       such license shall be on terms and conditions to be negotiated 
       between the Contractor and that minister.  It is understood that 
       those terms may include payment of compensation to Canada.

<strong>9601-6 05     (2001-12-10)  License to Intellectual Property Rights in 
                            Background Information</strong>

1.     Without restricting the scope of any license or other right in the 
       Background Information that Canada may otherwise hold, the 
       Contractor hereby grants to Canada, in relation to any 
       custom-designed or custom-manufactured part of the Work, a 
       non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, fully-paid and 
       royalty-free license to exercise such of the Intellectual Property 
       Rights in any Background Information incorporated into the Work or 
       necessary for the performance of the Work as may be required for the 
       following purposes:

       (a)    for the use, operation, maintenance, repair or overhaul of 
              the custom-designed or custom-manufactured parts of the Work;

       (b)    in the manufacturing of spare parts for maintenance, repair 
              or overhaul of any custom-designed or custom-manufactured 
              part of the Work by Canada if those parts are not available 
              on reasonable commercial terms to enable timely maintenance, 
              repair or overhaul;

       (c)    for disclosure to any contractor engaged by Canada (or bidder 
              for such a contract) to be used solely for a purpose set out 
              in paragraph (a) or (b), but in the case of paragraph (b), 
              only if the Contractor is unable or unwilling to provide the 
              spare parts on reasonable commercial terms and within 
              reasonable delivery times;

       and the Contractor agrees to make any such Background Information 
       (including, in the case of Software, source code) promptly available 
       to Canada for any such purpose.

2.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, the license set out therein shall not 
       apply to any Software that is subject to detailed license conditions 
       that are set out elsewhere in the Contract.  Furthermore, in the 
       case of commercial off-the-shelf software, the Contractor's 
       obligation to make the source code promptly available to Canada for 
       a purpose set out in subsection 1 shall apply only to source code 
       that is within the control of or can be obtained by the Contractor 
       or any Subcontractor, and in that event the Contractor shall, if 
       requested by Canada, make the source code available to Canada within 
       reasonable delivery times and on reasonable other commercial terms.

3.     Canada may wish to award contracts to third party contractors under 
       subsection 1, and such contract awards may follow a competitive 
       process.  The Contractor agrees that Canada's license in relation to 
       the Intellectual Property Rights in Background Information includes 
       the right to disclose the Background Information to bidders for such 
       contracts, and to sublicense or otherwise authorize the use of that 
       information by any contractor engaged by Canada solely for the 
       purpose of carrying out such a contract.  Canada shall require 
       bidders and the contractor not to use or disclose any Background 
       Information except as may be necessary to bid for or to carry out 
       that contract.

4.     Where the Intellectual Property Rights in any Background Information 
       are owned by a Subcontractor at any tier, the Contractor shall 
       either obtain a license from that Subcontractor that permits 
       compliance with subsection 1 or arrange for the Subcontractor to 
       convey directly to Canada the same rights by execution of the form 
       provided for that purpose by the Minister, in which case the 
       Contractor shall deliver that form to the Minister, duly completed 
       and executed by the Subcontractor, no later than the time of 
       disclosure to Canada of that Background Information.

<strong>9601-6 06     (2001-12-10)  Right to License</strong>

The Contractor represents and warrants that the Contractor has, or the 
Contractor shall obtain, without delay, the right to grant to Canada the 
license to exercise the Intellectual Property Rights in the Foreground 
Information and the Background Information as required by the Contract.

<strong>9601-6 07     (2001-05-25)  Transfer of Intellectual Property Rights in 
                            Foreground Information</strong>

1.     Until the Contractor completes the Work and discloses all of the 
       Foreground Information in accordance with section 02, the Contractor 
       shall not, without the prior written permission of the Minister, 
       sell, assign or otherwise transfer title to the Intellectual 
       Property Rights in any Foreground Information, or license or 
       otherwise authorize the use of the Intellectual Property Rights in 
       any of the Foreground Information by any person.
 
2.     If Canada terminates the Contract in whole or in part for default, 
       or if the Contractor fails to disclose any Foreground Information in 
       accordance with section 02, the Minister may, by notice given not 
       later than ninety (90) days from the date of termination or from the 
       date Canada learns of the failure to disclose, as the case may be, 
       require the Contractor to convey to Canada all of the Intellectual 
       Property Rights in the Foreground Information or, in the case of a 
       notice based on failure to disclose, all of the Intellectual 
       Property Rights in the Foreground Information not disclosed.  In the 
       case of either notice, the rights to be conveyed shall include the 
       Intellectual Property Rights in any Foreground Information that have 
       vested or are to vest in a Subcontractor at any tier.  In the case 
       of Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground Information which have 
       been sold or assigned to a party other than a Subcontractor at any 
       tier, the Contractor shall not be obligated to convey rights to 
       Canada in accordance with this subsection, but shall pay to Canada 
       on demand an amount equal to the consideration which the Contractor 
       received from the sale or assignment of the Intellectual Property 
       Rights in that Foreground Information or, in the case of a sale or 
       assignment that was not at arm's length, the fair market value of 
       the Intellectual Property Rights in that Foreground Information, in 
       each case including the value of future royalties or license fees.

3.     In the event of the issuance by the Minister of a notice under 
       subsection 2, the Contractor shall, at its own expense and without 
       delay, execute such conveyances or other documents relating to title 
       to the Intellectual Property Rights as the minister for whose 
       department or agency the Work is being or was carried out may 
       require, and the Contractor shall, at Canada's expense, afford that 
       minister all reasonable assistance in the preparation of 
       applications and in the prosecution of any applications for, or any 
       registration of, any Intellectual Property Right in any jurisdiction, 
       including without limitation the assistance of the inventor in the 
       case of Inventions.

<strong>9601-6 08     (2001-05-25)  Sale, Assignment, Transfer or Licensing of 
                            Intellectual Property Rights in Foreground 
                            Information</strong>

1.     In any sale, assignment, transfer or license of Intellectual 
       Property Rights in Foreground Information by the Contractor except a 
       sale or license for end use of a product based on Foreground 
       Information, the Contractor shall impose on the other party all of 
       its obligations to Canada in relation to the Intellectual Property 
       Rights in the Foreground Information and any restrictions set out in 
       the Contract on the use or disposition of the Intellectual Property 
       Rights in the<strong> </strong>Foreground Information (and, if applicable, the 
       Foreground Information), including the obligation to impose the same 
       obligations and restrictions on any subsequent transferee, assignee 
       or licensee<strong>.</strong>

2.     The Contractor shall promptly notify Canada of the name, address and 
       other pertinent information in regard to any transferee, assignee or 
       licensee referred to in subsection 1, and shall ensure that such 
       party is required to do the same with regard to any subsequent 
       transferee, assignee or licensee.

3.     The Contractor shall not charge or permit any person to charge a 
       royalty or other fee to Canada in respect of the Intellectual 
       Property Rights in any Foreground Information for purposes of a 
       contract or other arrangement with Canada.  Where the contract or 
       other arrangement is for a product based on Foreground Information 
       or on any modification or improvement thereof, the Contractor shall 
       grant to Canada a reasonable credit against its commercial price for 
       that product to take into account Canada's financial contribution 
       toward the development of the product, and in the case of a product 
       owned by a transferee, assignee or licensee of the Intellectual 
       Property Rights in any Foreground Information, the Contractor shall 
       ensure that such party is required to do the same.

<strong>9601-6 09     (2001-05-25)  Access to Information; Exception to Contractor 
                            Rights</strong>

1.     Subject to the <em>Access to Information Act</em>, R.S.C., c. A-1 and to any 
       right of Canada under the Contract to release or disclose, Canada 
       shall not release or disclose outside the Government of Canada any 
       information delivered to Canada under the Contract that is 
       confidential information or a trade secret of the Contractor or a 
       Subcontractor.

2.     Notwithstanding subsection 1, nothing in these terms and conditions 
       shall be construed as limiting Canada's right to exercise the 
       Intellectual Property Rights in any Foreground Information or any 
       Background Information, or to disclose any Foreground Information or 
       any Background Information, to the extent that such information:

       (a)    is or becomes in the public domain, or to the extent that the 
              Contractor does not benefit from or ceases to benefit from 
              any Intellectual Property Rights protection for such 
              information under legislation or at law (other than under the 
              terms of the Contract), for any reason including as a result 
              of Canada's use or disclosure of deliverables under the 
              Contract for any purpose whatever that is not expressly 
              excluded under the Contract;

       (b)    is or becomes known to Canada from a source other than the 
              Contractor, except from any source that is known to Canada to 
              be under an obligation to the Contractor not to disclose the 
              information;

       (c)    is independently developed by or for Canada; or 

       (d)    is disclosed under compulsion of a legislative requirement or 
              any order of a court or other tribunal having jurisdiction.

<strong>9601-6 10     (2001-05-25)  Waiver of Moral Rights</strong>

1.     The Contractor shall obtain a written permanent waiver of moral 
       rights (as this term is defined in the <em>Copyright Act</em>, R.S.C., c. 
       C-42), in a form acceptable to the Minister, from every author that 
       contributes to any Foreground Information which is subject to 
       copyright protection and which is deliverable to Canada under the 
       terms of the Contract.  At the request of the Minister (be it at the 
       completion of the Work or at any other time as the Minister may 
       require), the Contractor shall provide the written waiver(s) of 
       moral rights to the Minister.

2.     If the Contractor is an author of the Foreground Information 
       referred to in subsection 1, the Contractor hereby permanently 
       waives the Contractor's moral rights in that Foreground Information.



</pre>
</div>