<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks – Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>This clause is generally used for contracts with an estimated value between 
$100,000 and $5,000,000.
</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

GC8.1  Interpretation
GC8.2  Consultation and Co-operation
GC8.3  Notice of Dispute
GC8.4  Negotiation
GC8.5  Mediation
GC8.6  Binding Arbitration
GC8.7  Disputes not Subject to Arbitration
GC8.8  Confidentiality
GC8.9  Settlement
GC8.10 Rules for Mediation of Disputes
       GC8.10.1      Interpretation
       GC8.10.2      Application
       GC8.10.3      Communication
       GC8.10.4      Appointment of Project Mediator
       GC8.10.5      Confidentiality
       GC8.10.6      Time and Place of Mediation
       GC8.10.7      Representation
       GC8.10.8      Procedure
       GC8.10.9      Settlement Agreement
       GC8.10.10     Termination of Mediation
       GC8.10.11     Costs
       GC8.10.12     Subsequent Proceedings
GC8.11 Rules for Arbitration of Disputes
       GC8.11.1      Interpretation
       GC8.11.2      Arbitration Tribunal
       GC8.11.3      Application
       GC8.11.4      Initiation of Proceedings
       GC8.11.5      Appointment of Tribunal
       GC8.11.6      Preliminary Meeting
       GC8.11.7      Communications
       GC8.11.8      Representation
       GC8.11.9      Conduct of Proceedings
       GC8.11.10     Place of Arbitration
       GC8.11.11     Time Limitations
       GC8.11.12     Statement of Claim and Defence
       GC8.11.13     Further Written Statements
       GC8.11.14     Agreed Statement of Facts
       GC8.11.15     Evidence
       GC8.11.16     Hearings
       GC8.11.17     Default
       GC8.11.18     Arbitral Decision<strong></strong>


<strong>GC8.1  (2007-05-25)  Interpretation</strong><strong></strong>

1)     In these Dispute Resolution, an "arbitral question of law" means a 
       question of law that

       (a)    is capable of determination by arbitration under the laws of 
              Canada;

       (b)    does not involve interpretation or application of public law 
              of Canada, including without limitation any matter of 
              constitutional, administrative, criminal or tax law; and

       (c)    concerns

              (i)    the formation, validity, interpretation, application 
                     or enforceability of the Contract;

              (ii)   the performance, breach, termination or other 
                     discharge of the Contract;

              (iii)  the rights, duties, obligations or remedies of parties 
                            created by or pursuant to the Contract; or

              (iv)   any other issue of private law that may arise between 
                     parties relative to performance of the Contract.

       "dispute" means any disagreement regarding any issue identified by 
       the Contractor in the notice submitted to Canada in accordance with 
       paragraph 2) of GC8. 3, "Notice of Dispute", and includes any claim 
       by the Contractor arising from such disagreement and any 
       counterclaim by Canada, but does not include any claim by either 
       party for punitive or exemplary damages, injury to persons, death, 
       or any claim based on an allegation of libel or slander; and

2)     The alternative dispute resolution procedures set out in GC8, do not 
       apply to any claim by Canada against the Contractor except any 
       counterclaim in a dispute as defined in paragraph 1 of GC8.1, 
       including, but not limited to, any claim of setoff regarding any 
       amount due to Canada under GC5.10, "Assessment and Damages for Late 
       Completion".

<strong>GC8.2  (2007-05-25)  Consultation and Co-operation</strong>

1)     The parties agree to maintain open and honest communication 
       throughout the performance of the Contract.

2)     The parties agree to consult and co-operate with each other in the 
       furtherance of the Work and the resolution of problems or 
       differences that may arise.

<strong>GC8.3  (2007-05-25)  Notice of Dispute</strong>

1)     Any difference between the parties to the Contract of any nature 
       arising out of or in connection with the Contract which could result 
       in a claim by the Contractor against Canada, and which is not 
       settled by consultation and co-operation as envisaged in GC8.2, "
       Consultation and Co-operation", shall be resolved in the first 
       instance by Canada, whose written decision or direction shall be 
       final and binding subject only to the provisions of GC8.  Such 
       written decision or direction includes, but is not limited to, any 
       written decision or direction by Canada under any provision of the 
       General Conditions.

2)     The Contractor shall be deemed to have accepted the decision or 
       direction of Canada referred to in paragraph 1) of GC8.3 and to have 
       expressly waived and released Canada from any claim in respect of 
       the particular matter dealt with in that decision or direction 
       unless, within 15 working days after receipt of the decision or 
       direction, the Contractor submits to Canada a written notice of 
       dispute requesting formal negotiation under GC8.4, "Negotiation".  
       Such notice shall refer specifically to GC8.4, "Negotiation", and 
       shall specify the issues in contention and the relevant provisions 
       of the Contract.

3)     The giving of a written notice in accordance with paragraph 2) of 
       GC8.3 shall not relieve the Contractor from complying with the 
       decision or direction that is the subject of the dispute.  Such 
       compliance, however, shall not be construed as an admission by the 
       Contractor of the correctness of such decision or direction.

4)     If a dispute is not resolved promptly, Canada shall give such 
       instructions as, in Canada's opinion, are necessary for the proper 
       performance of the Work and to prevent delays pending a resolution 
       of the matter.  Unless Canada terminates the Contract, orders the 
       Contractor to suspend the Work, or takes the Work out of the hands 
       of the Contractor, the Contractor shall continue to perform the Work 
       in accordance with the provisions and requirements of the Contract 
       and the instructions of Canada.  Such performance shall not 
       prejudice any claim that the Contractor may have.

5)     Nothing in GC8, relieves the Contractor from its obligation to 
       provide any other notice required by the Contract within the time 
       specified in the Contract, including, but not limited to, any notice 
       required under GC6.2, "Changes in Subsurface Conditions".

<strong>GC8.4  (2007-05-25)  Negotiation</strong>

1)     Within 10 working days after receipt by Canada of a notice referred 
       to in paragraph 2) of GC8.3, "Notice of Dispute", or within such 
       other period of time as may be mutually agreed to, the parties shall 
       commence formal negotiations in order to resolve the dispute.  
       Negotiations shall occur initially between representatives of the 
       Contractor and Canada who play a direct supervisory role in the 
       performance, administration or management of the Contract.

2)     If the representatives referred to in paragraph 1) of GC8.4 are 
       unable to resolve some or all of the issues which are the subject of 
       the negotiations within 10 working, the parties shall refer the 
       remaining issues which are in dispute to a second level of 
       negotiation between a principal or principals of the Contractor and 
       a senior level manager or senior level managers representing Canada.

3)     If negotiations fail to resolve the dispute within 30 working days 
       from the date of delivery of the notice referred to in paragraph 2) 
       of GC8.3, "Notice of Dispute", or within such longer period as may 
       have been agreed to by the parties, the Contractor may, by giving 
       written notice to Canada, in accordance with GC2.3, "Notices", 
       within 10 working days from the end of such period, request that 
       mediation be undertaken to assist the parties to reach agreement on 
       the outstanding issues.

4)     If the Contractor does not request mediation within the period 
       permitted by paragraph 3) of GC8.4, the Contractor shall be deemed 
       to have accepted the decision or direction of Canada under paragraph 
       1) of GC8.3, "Notice of Dispute", and to have expressly waived and 
       released Canada from any claim in respect of the particular matter 
       dealt with in that decision or direction.

<strong>GC8.5  (2007-05-25)  Mediation</strong>

1)     If the Contractor has requested mediation in accordance with 
       paragraph 3) of GC8.4, "Negotiation", mediation shall be conducted 
       in accordance with GC8.10, "Rules for Mediation of Disputes".

2)     If a Project Mediator has not previously been appointed for the 
       purposes of the Contract, a Project Mediator shall be appointed in 
       accordance with GC8.10, "Rules for Mediation of Disputes", forthwith 
       after delivery of a notice in accordance with paragraph 3) of GC8.4, 
       "Negotiation", requesting mediation.

3)     If the dispute has not been resolved within

       (a)    10 working days following the appointment of a Project 
              Mediator in accordance with paragraph 2) of GC8.5, if a 
              Project Mediator was not previously appointed;

       (b)    10 working days following receipt by Canada of a written 
              notice in accordance with paragraph 3) of GC8.4, "Negotiation
              ", if a Project Mediator was previously appointed; or

       (c)    such other longer period as may have been agreed to by the 
              parties;

       the Project Mediator shall terminate the mediation by giving written 
       notice to the parties stating the effective date of termination.

<strong>GC8.6  (2007-05-25)  Binding Arbitration</strong>

1)     If mediation of the dispute is terminated pursuant to the provisions 
       of GC8.5, "Mediation", and

       (a)    the termination of mediation occurs prior to the applicable 
              date set out in paragraph 4) of GC8.6; and

       (b)    the disputed issues involve issues of fact or issues of 
              arbitral questions of law or issues of mixed fact and 
              arbitral questions of law;

       either party, by giving notice in writing to the other party in 
       accordance with GC2.3, "Notices", may require that the dispute be 
       resolved by binding arbitration pursuant to GC8.6.

2)     A notice referred to in paragraph 1) of GC8.6 shall be given within 
       10 working days of the date of termination of mediation under GC8.5 
       Mediation and shall be in accordance with GC2.3, "Notices".

3)     If no notice is given within the period set out in paragraph 2) of 
       GC8.6, or if the conditions set out in subparagraphs 1)(a) and 1)(b) 
       of GC8.6 are not met, the arbitration provisions set out in GC8.6 do 
       not apply to the dispute.

4)     Unless otherwise agreed, the arbitration of the dispute shall be 
       held in abeyance until the earlier of

       (a)    the date of issuance of a Certificate of Substantial 
              Performance under GC5.5, "Substantial Performance of the Work
              ";

       (b)    the date the Work is taken out of the Contractor's hands; and

       (c)    the date of termination of the Contract;

       and consolidated with all other such disputes into a single 
       arbitration. 

5)     Arbitral proceedings under this GC8.6 shall be governed by and 
       conducted in accordance with the <em>Commercial Arbitration Act</em>, R.S.C. 
       1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.) and the provisions of GC8.11, "Rules for 
       Arbitration of Disputes".

6)     For the purposes of calculating time under the Rules for Arbitration 
       referred to in paragraph 5) of GC8.6, arbitration proceedings shall 
       commence on the applicable date set out in paragraph 4) of GC8.6.

7)     Notwithstanding anything else contained in GC8.6, the arbitration 
       provisions in GC8.6 do not apply if the aggregate amount of all 
       claims by the Contractor required to be arbitrated on the applicable 
       date set out in paragraph 4) of GC8.6 is less than $25,000.

<strong>GC8.7  (2007-05-25)  Disputes not Subject to Arbitration</strong>

1)     Where the arbitration provisions in GC8.6, "Binding Arbitration", do 
       not apply to a dispute as a result of paragraphs 3) or 7) of GC8.6, 
       "Binding Arbitration", either party may take such court action or 
       proceedings as it considers appropriate, including, without limiting 
       the foregoing, all suits that would otherwise have been immediately 
       available to it but for the provisions of these Dispute Resolution 
       Conditions.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2) of GC8.7, the 
       Contractor shall initiate any such action or proceeding no later 
       than three calendar months after the date that a Certificate of 
       Completion is issued under GC5.6, "Final Completion", and not 
       afterwards, except where it is otherwise provided by law.

2)     Any action or proceeding resulting from a direction under GC3.13, "
       Warranty and Rectification of Defects in Work", shall be initiated 
       by the Contractor no later than three calendar months after the 
       expiry of the warranty or guarantee period and not afterwards, 
       except where it is otherwise provided by law.

<strong>GC8.8  (2007-05-25)  Confidentiality</strong>

1)     All information exchanged during alternative dispute resolution 
       procedures, by whatever means, shall be without prejudice and shall 
       be treated as confidential by the parties and their representatives, 
       unless otherwise required by law.  However, evidence that is 
       independently admissible or discoverable shall not be rendered 
       inadmissible or non-discoverable by virtue of its use during an 
       alternative dispute resolution process.

<strong>GC8.9  (2007-05-25)  Settlement</strong>

1)     Any agreement to settle all or any part of a dispute, by whatever 
       means, shall be in writing and be signed by the parties or their 
       authorized representatives.

<strong>GC8.10 (2007-05-25)  Rules for Mediation of Disputes</strong>

       <strong>GC8.10.1      Interpretation</strong>

In these Rules

1)     "Coordinator" means the person designated by Canada to act as the 
       Dispute Resolution Coordinator.

       <strong>GC8.10.2      Application</strong>

1)     By mutual agreement, the parties may change or make additions to the 
       Rules.

       <strong>GC8.10.3      Communication</strong>

1)     Written communications pursuant to these Rules shall be given in 
       accordance with GC2.3, "Notices".

       <strong>GC8.10.4      Appointment of Project Mediator</strong>

1)     The parties to the Contract may, by mutual consent, at any time 
       after entry into the Contract, appoint a mediator (the "Project 
       Mediator") to conduct mediation proceedings in accordance with these 
       Rules for Mediation of Disputes, in regard to any dispute that may 
       arise with regard to the interpretation, application or 
       administration of the Contract.  In this case, they shall jointly 
       enter into a contract with the appointed Project Mediator, which 
       contract shall be in a form drafted by the Coordinator and agreed to 
       by the parties.

2)     If the parties do not appoint a Project Mediator pursuant to 
       paragraph 1) of GC8.10.4, the parties shall appoint a Project 
       Mediator within 17 working days following receipt of a written 
       notice from the Contractor, in accordance with GC2.3, "Notices", 
       requesting that mediated negotiations be undertaken in accordance 
       with these Rules to assist the parties to reach agreement on any 
       outstanding issues that may be in dispute.  Any contract entered 
       into with the appointed Project Mediator shall meet the requirements 
       as set out for the contract described in paragraph 1) of GC8.8.4.

3)     When mediation is requested by the Contractor pursuant to paragraph 
       3) of GC8.4, "Negotiation", if the parties have previously entered 
       into a contract with a Project Mediator, the parties shall within 2 
       days send to both the Project Mediator and the Coordinator

       (a)    a copy of the notice requesting negotiation under paragraph 2 
              of GC8.3, "Notice of Dispute";

       (b)    a copy of Canada's written position in relation to the notice, 
              the issues in contention and the relevant provisions of the 
              contract; and

       (c)    a copy of the Contractor's written request for mediation 
              required under paragraph 3 of GC8.4, "Negotiation".

4)     If the parties have not agreed on a Project Mediator, the parties 
       shall forthwith provide the Coordinator with the written materials 
       referred to in subparagraphs 3)(a), 3)(b) and 3)(c) of GC8.10.4 
       together with a request that the Coordinator assist in the 
       appointment of a mutually acceptable Project Mediator in accordance 
       with these Rules.

5)     Within 5 working days following receipt of the request and materials 
       referred to in paragraph 4) of GC8.10.4, the Coordinator shall 
       provide the parties with a list of qualified private sector 
       mediators obtained from an independent and impartial entity, 
       together with instructions to each party to individually and 
       confidentially select and rank their preferred and fully acceptable 
       choices of mediator in descending order.  Each mediator listed shall 
       be impartial and independent of the parties, and shall be an 
       experienced and skilled commercial mediator, preferably with 
       knowledge of the subject matter of the dispute.

6)     Within 10 working days of receipt of the list referred to in 
       paragraph 5) of GC8.10.4 each party shall comply with the 
       instructions accompanying the list(s) and shall deliver the 
       completed listing to the Coordinator.

7)     Within 2 working days following receipt of the completed listings, 
       the Coordinator shall select the highest common ranked mediator to 
       act as Project Mediator for the purposes of the contract.

8)     In the event of a tie, the Coordinator shall consult both parties to 
       re-evaluate their rankings in order to assist the Coordinator in 
       selecting a Project Mediator acceptable to both parties.  If the 
       parties cannot agree upon a Project Mediator, the Coordinator shall 
       forthwith provide the parties with a second list of mediators and 
       the procedure shall be repeated.

9)     If the parties have not previously entered into a contract with a 
       mutually acceptable Project Mediator, the Coordinator shall use 
       reasonable efforts to negotiate a contract with a mutually 
       acceptable Project Mediator on behalf of the parties, which contract 
       shall incorporate or otherwise comply with the provisions of these 
       Rules.  If negotiations are unsuccessful, or if for other reason the 
       individual is unwilling or unable to enter into a contract to act as 
       Project Mediator, the Coordinator shall repeat the process with the 
       second-highest common ranked mediator.

10)    The parties agree that, upon successful completion of the 
       negotiations referred to in paragraph 9) of GC8.10.4, they shall 
       jointly enter into a contract with the selected Project Mediator, 
       which contract shall be in a form drafted by the Coordinator and 
       agreed to by the parties.

11)    Upon execution of the contract with the Project Mediator referred to 
       in paragraph 10) of GC8.10.4 the Coordinator shall provide the 
       Project Mediator with copies of the documents referred to in 
       paragraph 3) of GC8.10.4. 
       <strong>GC8.10.5      Confidentiality</strong>

1)     Subject to paragraph 2) of GC8.10.5, and unless otherwise agreed in 
       writing by the parties, the Project Mediator, the parties and their 
       counsel or representatives shall keep confidential all matters and 
       documents disclosed during mediation proceedings except where the 
       disclosure is necessary for any implementation of any agreement 
       reached or is required by law.

2)     Evidence that is independently admissible or discoverable in any 
       arbitral or judicial proceeding shall not be rendered inadmissible 
       or non-discoverable by virtue of its use in mediation proceedings.

3)     Neither party shall make transcripts, minutes or other records of a 
       mediation conference.

4)     The personal notes and written opinions of the Project Mediator made 
       in relation to mediation are in the Project Mediator's sole 
       possession and control, are confidential, and may not be used in any 
       subsequent proceeding between the parties or where they are opposed 
       in interest without the express written permission of the parties.

5)     All information exchanged during mediation procedures, by whatever 
       means, shall be without prejudice and shall be treated as 
       confidential by the parties and their representatives, unless 
       otherwise required by law.

       <strong>GC8.10.6      Time and Place of Mediation</strong><strong></strong>

1)     The Project Mediator, in consultation with the parties shall set the 
       date, time and place of any mediation conference as soon as possible, 
       bearing in mind that, subject to agreement to the contrary between 
       the parties, only 10 working days are available within which to 
       attempt to settle the dispute.

       <strong>GC8.10.7      Representation</strong>

1)     Representatives of the parties may be accompanied at the mediation 
       conference by legal counsel or any other person.

2)     If the Project Mediator is a lawyer, the Project Mediator shall not 
       provide legal advice to a party during the course of the mediation 
       conference, but may recommend that a party obtain independent legal 
       advice before finalizing a settlement agreement.

       <strong>GC8.10.8      Procedure</strong>

1)     The parties agree to an exchange of all facts, information and 
       documents upon which they intend to rely in any oral or written 
       presentation during the mediation.  This exchange shall be completed 
       no later than 2 working days prior to the date set for a mediation 
       conference.

2)     The Project Mediator shall be free to meet with the parties 
       individually during a mediation conference if the Project Mediator 
       is of the opinion that this may improve the chances of a mediated 
       settlement, and either party may request such an individual meeting 
       at any time.

3)     The parties may agree to extend the 10 working days available for 
       settlement of the dispute through mediation, and the Project 
       Mediator shall record that agreement in writing.

       <strong>GC8.10.9      Settlement Agreement</strong>

1)     The parties shall record in writing any settlement agreement reached, 
       with sufficient detail to ensure a clear understanding of
 
       (a)    the issues resolved;

       (b)    any obligations assumed by each party including criteria to 
              determine if and when these obligations have been met; and

       (c)    the consequences of failure to comply with the agreement 
              reached.

2)     The parties agree to carry out the terms of a settlement agreement 
       as soon as possible and, in any event, within any time periods 
       specified in the agreement.

       <strong>GC8.10.10     Termination of Mediation</strong>

1)     Either party may withdraw from mediation at any time without reason 
       and, in that event, the Project Mediator shall give each party a 
       written notice terminating the mediation and establishing the 
       effective date of termination.

2)     If, in the opinion of the Project Mediator, either party fails to 
       mediate in good faith or fails to comply with the terms of these 
       Rules, or if the Project Mediator, at any time during mediation, is 
       of the opinion that further negotiations will fail to resolve the 
       issues outstanding, the Project Mediator may terminate the 
       negotiations by providing the parties with a written notice of 
       termination, stating therein the Project Mediator's reasons for the 
       termination, and the effective date of termination.

3)     If a dispute has not been resolved within 10 working days or such 
       other longer period as may have been agreed to by the parties, the 
       Project Mediator shall terminate the mediation by giving written 
       notice to the parties stating the effective date of termination.

       <strong>GC8.10.11     Costs</strong>

1)     The parties agree that they will each be responsible for the costs 
       of their own representatives and advisors and associated travel and 
       living expenses.  Fees and expenses of the Project Mediator and all 
       administrative costs of mediation, such as the cost of the meeting 
       room(s), if any, shall be borne equally by the parties.

       <strong>GC8.10.12     Subsequent Proceedings</strong>

1)     The parties shall not rely on or introduce as evidence in any 
       arbitral or judicial proceeding, whether or not such proceeding 
       relates to the subject matter of mediation,

       (a)    any documents of other parties that are not otherwise 
              producible in those proceedings;

       (b)    any views expressed or suggestions made by any party in 
              respect of a possible settlement of issues;

       (c)    any admission made by any party in the course of mediation 
              unless otherwise stipulated by the admitting party; and

       (d)    the fact that any party has indicated a willingness to make 
              or accept a proposal or recommendation for settlement.

2)     The Project Mediator shall neither represent nor testify on behalf 
       of either of the parties in any subsequent investigation, action or 
       proceeding relating to the issues in mediation proceedings.

3)     The Project Mediator shall not be subpoenaed to give evidence 
       relating to

       (a)    the Project Mediator's role in mediation; or
 
       (b)    the matters or issues in mediation;

       in any subsequent investigation, action or proceeding and the 
       parties agree to vigorously oppose any effort to have the Mediator 
       so subpoenaed.

<strong>GC8.11 (2007-05-25)  Rules for Arbitration of Disputes</strong>

       <strong>GC8.11.1      Interpretation</strong>

1)     In these Rules

       "claimant" means the Contractor;

       "Coordinator" means the person designated by Canada to act as the 
       Dispute Resolution Coordinator"

       "respondent" means Canada.

       <strong>GC8.11.2      Arbitration Tribunal</strong>

1)     Subject to these Rules, and unless otherwise agreed by the parties, 
       the arbitration tribunal shall consist of a single arbitrator ("the 
       Tribunal") who shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions 
       of the Rules.

       <strong>GC8.11.3      Application</strong>

1)     By mutual agreement, the parties may change or make additions to the 
       Rules.

2)     The scope of the arbitral proceedings shall be limited to the 
       resolution of the dispute submitted to arbitration.

3)     The dispute shall be subject to resolution pursuant to the 
       provisions of these Rules whether or not such resolution requires 
       determination of a question of law if such question of law is an 
       arbitral question of law as defined in the terms and conditions of 
       the Contract.

4)     Arbitral proceedings shall be governed by and in accordance with the <em>
       Commercial Arbitration Act</em>, R.S.C. 1985, c. 17 (2nd Supp.), the Code 
       referred to therein, and the provisions of these Rules, and, subject 
       only to the provisions of the Commercial Arbitration Act, the 
       parties agree that the determination and award of the Tribunal shall 
       be final and binding on both parties.

5)     The Tribunal shall not decide the dispute <em>ex aequo et bono </em>or as 
       amiable compositeur.

6)     The Tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms and 
       conditions of the Contract and shall take into account the usage of 
       the trade applicable to the transaction.

7)     The costs of the Tribunal and the arbitration shall be shared 
       equally by the parties and each party shall bear its own costs.

       <strong>GC8.11.4      Initiation of Proceedings</strong>

1)     Either party may submit a dispute to binding arbitration pursuant to 
       GC8.6, "Binding Arbitration", by giving notice in writing to the 
       other party in accordance with GC2.3, "Notices".

2)     The notice referred to in paragraph 1) of GC8.11.4 shall contain the 
       following:

       (a)    a brief description of the Contract; 
       (b)    a statement of the issue(s) in dispute;

       (c)    a request that the dispute be referred to binding arbitration; 
              and

3)     A copy of the notice referred to in paragraph 1) of GC8.11.4 shall 
       be given to the Coordinator at the same time it is given to the 
       other party.

4)     Unless otherwise agreed, the arbitration of the dispute shall be 
       held in abeyance and consolidated with all other such disputes into 
       a single arbitration in accordance with paragraph 4) of GC8.6, "
       Binding Arbitration".

       <strong>GC8.11.5      Appointment of Tribunal</strong>

1)     No later than 10 working days following the date of commencement of 
       arbitration proceedings as set out in paragraph 6) of GC8.6, "
       Binding Arbitration", the Coordinator shall assemble and provide the 
       parties with a list of qualified private sector arbitrators obtained 
       from an independent and impartial entity, together with instructions 
       to each party to individually and confidentially select and rank 
       their preferred and fully acceptable choices of arbitrator in 
       descending order.

2)     Within 10 working days of receipt of the list referred to in 
       paragraph 1) of GC8.11.5, each party shall comply with the 
       instructions accompanying the list(s) and shall deliver the 
       completed listing to the Coordinator.

3)     Within 2 working days following receipt of the completed listings, 
       the Coordinator shall select the highest common ranked arbitrator to 
       act as the Tribunal for the purposes of the arbitration.

4)     In the event of a tie, the Coordinator shall consult both parties to 
       re-evaluate their rankings in order to assist the Coordinator in 
       selecting a single arbitrator acceptable to both parties.  If the 
       parties cannot agree upon an arbitrator, the Coordinator shall 
       forthwith provide the parties with a second list of arbitrators and 
       the procedure shall be repeated.

5)     In the event that, following the repeated procedure, the Coordinator 
       again fails to select a single arbitrator acceptable to both parties, 
       the Tribunal shall consist of three (3) arbitrators, one arbitrator 
       appointed by each of the parties and the third arbitrator appointed 
       by these two (2) arbitrators.

6)     The Tribunal shall in any event be composed of a person or persons 
       who have experience in the subject matter of the dispute and are 
       independent of either party.  Without limiting the generality of the 
       foregoing, the Tribunal shall be at arm's length from both parties 
       and shall not be composed of members of any company, firm, or agency 
       which advises either party, nor shall the Tribunal be composed of a 
       person or persons who are otherwise regularly retained by such 
       parties.

7)     The parties agree that they shall jointly enter into an agreement 
       with the selected Tribunal, which agreement shall be in a form 
       drafted by the Coordinator and agreed to by the parties.

8)     The parties agree that they shall each bear their own costs.  Fees 
       and reasonable expenses of the Tribunal and reasonable expenses 
       associated with the conduct of the arbitration shall be borne 
       equally by the parties.

       <strong>GC8.11.6      Preliminary Meeting</strong>

1)     Unless the parties to the arbitration and the Tribunal otherwise 
       agree, the parties shall meet with the Tribunal within 10 working 
       days of the Tribunal's appointment to

       (a)    settle the location of premises for proceedings and 
              responsibilities for the arrangement;
 
       (b)    verify addresses for the delivery of written communications 
              to each party and to the Tribunal;

       (c)    present to the Tribunal the issues to be resolved by means of 
              the arbitration;

       (d)    estimate the length of time the hearing might take and the 
              number of witnesses likely to be produced;

       (e)    determine if a stenographic record or any other type of 
              recording of proceedings should be kept, or if any particular 
              services, such as interpreters, translations or security 
              measures should be provided; and

       (f)    determine any other matters pertinent to conduct of the 
              arbitration.

       <strong>GC8.11.7      Communications</strong>

1)     Subject to paragraph 2) of GC8.11.7, the Tribunal shall not 
       communicate with a party to the dispute except in the presence of 
       the other party.

2)     Notwithstanding paragraph 1) of GC8.11.7, the Tribunal may 
       communicate with the parties separately for the purpose of 
       establishing procedures to be followed or setting the time of a 
       meeting; other exceptions to the general rule shall only be made 
       with the consent in writing of all parties.

3)     If a communication by the Tribunal to one party is in writing, a 
       copy shall be sent to the other party.

4)     If a party sends any written communication to the Tribunal, a copy 
       shall be sent to the other party.

5)     Any communication that is required or permitted to be given to the 
       Tribunal or either party shall be in writing and may be given by 
       delivering the same by facsimile, electronic mail or by mail, 
       postage prepaid, to the address established for the purposes of the 
       Contract in the case of the parties, and to the address provided by 
       the Tribunal in the case of the Tribunal, and such communication 
       shall be deemed to have been received in accordance with the 
       provisions of GC2.3, "Notices".

<strong>       GC8.11.8      Representation</strong>

1)     The parties may be represented or assisted by any person during the 
       arbitral proceedings.

       <strong>GC8.11.9      Conduct of Proceedings</strong><strong></strong>

1)     Subject to the provisions of these Rules, the Tribunal may conduct 
       the arbitration in the manner it considers appropriate.  The power 
       conferred upon the Tribunal includes the power to determine the 
       admissibility, relevance, materiality and weight of any evidence.

       <strong>GC8.11.10     Place of Arbitration</strong>

1)     The Tribunal may meet at any place it considers appropriate for 
       hearing witnesses, experts or the parties, or for inspection of 
       documents, goods or other property.  The Tribunal shall conduct on-
site inspections at the request of either party.  Any on-site inspections 
shall be made in the presence of both parties and their representatives.  
The proceedings of any on-site inspections shall be recorded as part of the 
hearing itself.

       <strong>GC8.11.11     Time Limitations</strong>
 
1)     The Tribunal may extend or abridge a period of time required in 
       these Rules or fixed or determined by the Tribunal where the 
       Tribunal considers it to be reasonable and appropriate.

2)     Where any proceeding is terminated pursuant to paragraph 25(a) or 32 
       (2)(a) of the Code referred to in the <em>Commercial Arbitration Act</em>, 
       unless the respondent agrees otherwise in writing, such termination 
       is deemed to be a final award dismissing the claim of the claimant.

       <strong>GC8.11.12     Statement of Claim and Defence</strong>

1)     Within 10 working days after the Tribunal has been appointed, the 
       claimant shall state, in writing, the facts supporting its claim, 
       points at issue and relief or remedy sought, and shall submit the 
       statement to the respondent, the Coordinator, and the Tribunal.

2)     Within 10 working days after receipt of the statement of claim, the 
       respondent shall state, in writing, its defence in respect of these 
       particulars and any counterclaim and shall submit its statement to 
       the claimant, the Coordinator and the Tribunal.

3)     Within 5 working days after receipt of the statement of defence, the 
       claimant may state, in writing, its response to the defence and to 
       any counterclaim, and shall submit its statement to the respondent, 
       the Coordinator and the Tribunal.

4)     A party may amend or supplement its statements during the course of 
       arbitral proceedings unless the Tribunal considers it inappropriate 
       to allow such amendment or supplement having regard to all 
       circumstances including delay in making the amendment or supplement.

5)     A statement may not be amended if the amended statement would fall 
       outside the scope of the arbitration agreement.

       <strong>GC8.11.13     Further Written Statements</strong>

1)     The Tribunal may require or permit the presentation of further 
       written statements by the parties and shall fix the periods of time 
       for submitting those statements.

       <strong>GC8.11.14     Agreed Statement of Facts</strong>

1)     Within a time period specified by the Tribunal, the parties shall 
       prepare and file with the Tribunal an agreed statement of facts 
       including but not limited to a chronology of the project, schedules, 
       quantities and progress payments.  The Tribunal shall make itself 
       available, upon reasonable notice, to assist the parties to arrive 
       at agreement on as many facts as possible under the circumstances.

2)     Within a time period specified by the Tribunal, the parties shall 
       prepare and file with the Tribunal a common book of documents 
       including all documents referred to in an agreed statement of facts 
       and in statements of claim, defence and response.

       <strong>GC8.11.15     Evidence</strong>

1)     Each party shall prove the facts relied upon to support its claim or 
       defence.

2)     Each party shall deliver to the Tribunal and to the other party, 
       within such period of time that the Tribunal determines, a copy of 
       the documents and a summary of the other evidence that party intends 
       to present in support of the facts in issue set out in its statement 
       of claim, defence or response.

3)     From time to time, the Tribunal may require the parties to produce 
       documents, exhibits and other evidence within such period of time 
       that the Tribunal may determine. 
       <strong>GC8.11.16     Hearings</strong>

1)     All statements, documents or other information supplied to, or 
       applications made to, the Tribunal by one party shall be 
       communicated to the other party, and any expert report or 
       evidentiary document on which the Tribunal may rely in making its 
       decision shall be communicated to the parties at least 8 working 
       days prior to its entry in evidence.

2)     The parties shall be given reasonably sufficient advance notice of 
       any hearing of the Tribunal and any meeting of the Tribunal for the 
       purpose of inspection of documents, goods or other property.

3)     If a party intends to give evidence through a witness, the party 
       shall communicate to the Tribunal and to the other party, within 
       such period that the Tribunal determines

       (a)    the names, addresses and curriculum vitae of each of the 
              witnesses it intends to present; and

       (b)    the subject upon which those witnesses shall give their 
              testimony.

4)     Each party shall have the right to examine, cross-examine and 
       re-examine all witnesses as appropriate.

5)     All oral hearings and meetings in arbitral proceedings shall be held 
       "in camera".

       <strong>GC8.11.17     Default</strong>

1)     Where, without showing sufficient cause, the claimant fails to 
       communicate its statement of claim in accordance with these Rules or 
       within such further period of time permitted by the Tribunal under 
       these Rules, the Tribunal shall issue an order terminating the 
       arbitral proceedings with respect to that claim.

2)     An order made under paragraph 1) of GC8.11.17 does not affect a 
       counterclaim made in respect of those arbitral proceedings.

3)     Where, without showing sufficient cause, the respondent fails to 
       communicate a statement of defence in accordance with these Rules, 
       or within such further period of time permitted by the Tribunal 
       under these Rules, the Tribunal shall continue the arbitral 
       proceedings without treating that failure in itself as an admission 
       of the claimant's allegations.

4)     Where, without showing sufficient cause, a party fails to appear at 
       an oral hearing or produce documentary evidence, the Tribunal may 
       continue the arbitral proceedings and make the arbitral award on the 
       evidence before it.

       <strong>GC8.11.18     Arbitral Decision</strong>

1)     Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, the Tribunal shall make 
       the award no later than 30 days after completion of the arbitration 
       hearings unless that time period is extended for an express period 
       by the Tribunal on written notice to each party, due to illness or 
       other cause beyond the Tribunal's control.

</pre>
</div>